--- Página 39 ---

2
Introduction, History, and Concept
of Digital Twin
N. Rajamurugu* and M. K. Karthik
Department of Aeronautical Engineering, Bharath Institute of Science and
Technology, Chennai, India
Abstract
Digital twin has come into limelight in the recent past. It is a powerful technol-
ogy, which got notability in the recent past. Even though it came into limelight
recently, its existence is dated back to 1960s. It is making its place in different
areas now. It can be used at many places in different sectors or areas. It is all set to
achieve more notability and reach great heights. It can be truly beneficial in usage
for many different sectors or areas. This is a great factor. In this chapter, digital
twin is introduced. Along with introducing digital twin, its history and its concept
is also explained.
Keywords: Digital twin, National Aeronautics and Space Administration
(NASA), technology, virtual model
2.1 Introduction
The advent of advanced, innovative and complex engineered systems has
established new technologies that are far more superior and perform well
even in harsh environments [19]. In industry 4.0, specially, new technolo-
gies are seen to be emerging. Digital Twin technology is one such emerging
technology concept that has become the centre of attention for industry
and, in more recent years, academia [6].
The digital twin is considered as one of the key technology trends [8].
A digital twin is an intelligent and evolving model, which is the virtual
*Corresponding author: rajamurugu.aero@bharathuniv.ac.in
Manisha Vohra (ed.) Digital Twin Technology: Fundamentals and Applications, (19–32) © 2023
Scrivener Publishing LLC
19



--- Página 40 ---

20 Digital Twin Technology
counterpart of a physical entity or process [5]. Digital twins are nowadays
considered as collections of linked digital artefacts [22]. Digital twin pro-
vides virtual representations of systems along their lifecycle [10].
A Digital Twin is one of the enabling technologies of Industry 4.0 that
couples actual physical systems with corresponding virtual representation
[15]. A digital twin paradigm is able to continuously monitor complex
engineering systems [17]. The notion “digital twin” is inspired by the devel-
opments known under terms like “Industry 4.0” or “Industrial Internet”
[4]. The concept of using “twins” is rather old. It dates back to NASA’s
Apollo program [14].
Digital twin is a technology with great opportunities and advantages. It
can provide great opportunities and advantages in various sectors. Digital
twin means a virtual representation or a virtual model of a physical object
or product where the virtual model resembles to and also acts or behaves
like the original object or product.
Digital twin technology allows to run simulations. It can be used in var-
ious applications. Digital twin can receive real-time data from the original
object whom it is replicating. This allows virtual model also to have the
same changes in the virtual model itself in real time as happening in the
physical object.
Digital twin application includes real-time monitoring, maintenance,
etc. [1]. A manufacturing digital twin gives an opportunity to simulate and
optimize the production system, [2]. Digital twin technology can help us
understand better the maintenance needs and schedule it accordingly [9].
The industry 4.0 focuses on the establishment of intelligent products and
the production processes [21].
The concept of the digital twin for a production process enables a cou-
pling of the production system with its digital equivalent as a base for an
optimization with a minimized delay between the time of data acquisition
and the creation of the digital twin [11].
With the advent of Industrial Internet of things, even more data is being
generated that further highlights the importance of Digital Twinning [7].
The information transfer from the physical to the digital twin is related to
the observation and sensing of the physical twin [12]. With existing sensor
data transmission (in real time), a digital twin can be created that moni-
tors, controls and optimizes itself [16].
Digital Twins promise significant benefits for their different stakehold-
ers when used to support the design, manufacturing management, moni-
toring and control as well as optimisation of manufactured products, and
production equipment and systems in manufacturing [25]. A digital twin
should be capable to guarantee well-defined services to support various



--- Página 41 ---

Introduction, History, and Concept of Digital Twin 21
activities such as monitoring, maintenance, management, optimization
and safety [26].
A cyber-physical digital twin system plays a very important role in
Industry 4.0 in manufacturing context [27]. Product and process designs
are developed in the digital domain nowadays and digital twin can help
here [18]. The digital twin can be even used in factories to map the entire
factory floor and its existing levels [20].
Data acquired of the product or system in real-time provides a better
understanding of the product or system. There can be many useful and
innovative possibilities with digital twin technology. Digital twin tech-
nology has gained limelight and notability in the recent past few years. In
2017, it was named by Gartner in the top ten strategic technology trends.
The advantages of digital twin will contribute to help digital twin achieve
more notability and reach great heights.
Digital twin is a technology that can predict possible future problems,
which could occur in an object, system, etc. Hence, the loss an individual or
a company faces when problems are faced in their products or systems and
they have to rework on their products or systems and find some solution,
can be saved with digital twin. Necessary changes can be incorporated as
and when required according to the prediction of problems, information
and insight received from digital twin thereby preventing the problems in
their products or systems.
This can be a game changer altogether. Whether it is an individual or a
company, anyone would definitely want to use a technology, which can help
to avoid problems in their product or system because if any major problem
occurs in a company’s product or system then it can cost them not just eco-
nomically but it can lead to even failure of the product or system. All this can
be prevented with digital twin efficiently. Digital twin is making its place and
it can significantly contribute towards different sectors with its advantages.
Apart from predicting possible future problems, digital twin can also help
in various other ways with its other advantages it can provide to its users.
The different advantages of digital twin are explained later on in the chapter.
2.2 History of Digital Twin
Digital twin has an interesting history. This technology concept was used
for the first time long ago in the year 1970 but it was only in the year 2010
that the name of this technology i.e. Digital Twin was coined. In the year,
this technology concept was presented at a conference but it was presented
as “Conceptual Ideal for PLM,” and it all had the elements of digital twin.



--- Página 42 ---

22 Digital Twin Technology
PLM means project lifecycle management. Altogether, the history of dig-
ital twin is quite interesting. Let us know and understand the digital twin
technology briefly.
The ideology of digital twin technology was introduced during 1991,
courtesy to David Gelernter. Actually, David Gelernter in his book Mirror
Worlds had written about the ideology of digital twin. Later, Dr. Michael
Grieves, for the first time in 2002, had spoken about digital twins at a con-
ference and had presented its concept there. The conference was held in
Michigan University. Like mentioned above, it was this conference where
the concept of digital twin technology was presented as “Conceptual Ideal
for PLM,” and all digital twin elements were present in it.
John Vickers from National Aeronautics and Space Administration
(NASA) eventually coined the term “digital twin” in 2010. The name Digital
Twin, which John Vickers coined, was written by him in a report. So finally,
in 2010, this technology’s name was coined. However, prior to all the evets
mentioned about the history of digital twin till now, it was NASA had first
worked on digital twin concept in 1960s. NASA had started working on
this technology concept in 1960s. Later it was used when needed for their
Apollo 13 program.
According to Glaessgen Stargel, “A digital twin is a comprehensive
multi-physics, multi-scale, probabilistic simulation of a complex product
that combines the best available physical models, sensor updates, etc., to
mirror the life of its corresponding twin” [3].
It was in the year 1970 where the concept of digital twin was first used
during the Apollo 13 mission of NASA. If the history of digital twin is seen
carefully then it can be understood that from 1970, when it was used for
the first time till the present time, its journey has been not just interesting
but very progressive as well.
Earlier, digital twin had not got the exposure it needed to grow and
progress but in the recent past, things changed, it came into limelight and
it got all the exposure and support it needed for its growth. 2002 proved to
be a turning point for digital as Dr. Michael Grieves had spoken about it
at a conference and this marked as the first introduction of digital twin at
a public event, though it was presented as “Conceptual Ideal for PLM” but
it had all elements of digital twin. Hence, this sure was a turning point for
digital twin technology.
However, despite this turning point in 2002 after this conference, dig-
ital twin was back then yet to receive the kind of exposure it needed. The
needed exposure started to be received 2010 onwards when John Vickers
from NASA coined the term “Digital Twin” for this technology. Till 2010,



--- Página 43 ---

Introduction, History, and Concept of Digital Twin 23
this name, i.e., Digital Twin was not given to this technology, and it was
much needed for it to get a fixed name through it is addressed by everyone.
After John Vickers coining this name “Digital Twin” for this technology
it was universally addressed as digital twin. From the time it got its name
till the present time, in all these years slowly but steadily it came into lime-
light and progressed and is still progressing greatly.
Its usefulness is getting to be known by all. It can be used in various
sectors and can play a crucial role in them.
2.3 Concept of Digital Twin
Digital twin concept is a very useful technology concept. Digital twin
means creation of duplicate model, which is a virtual model of a physical
product or object, where the virtual model resembles to the original prod-
uct or object. Its behavior is also same as the original product or object.
There are three different important parts of digital twin model. The first
important part is comprising of physical products, to be precise, it is physi-
cal products in real space. The second important part is comprising virtual
products, precisely it is virtual products in virtual space. The third import-
ant part is comprising of connections, it is the connection of information
and data, which ties real products and virtual products together [23]. These
connections can be also called as link. There is link is for flow of data and
link for flow of information. The data flow takes place from real space to
the virtual space and the information flow takes place from the virtual
space to the real space and virtual sub-spaces [13].
[13] states there are types of digital twin. The first type is digital twin
prototype, abbreviated as DTP and the second type is digital twin instance,
abbreviated as DTI. Let us understand these types but before that it is
important to know digital twin’s operation is conducted is digital twin
environment, which is abbreviated as DTE [13].
2.3.1 DTP
It is the one that gives description of prototypical physical artifact. DTP has
great responsibility on itself. It has all bunch of information required for
the description and production of a real-world version, which replicates or
copies the digital version. Bunch of information consist of various things
like what are the necessities, completely annotated 3D model, all different
materials with listed specifications and their bill, different services bill with
bill of disposal and processes and so on because it is not limited to only



--- Página 44 ---

24 Digital Twin Technology
these mentioned things, there can be more things, which can be included
here [13].
2.3.2 DTI
Here, this is the one in which an individual digital twin is connected to
real world product throughout life cycle of real world product and it gives
description of this product. On basis of usage, DTI digital twin could have
different informational bunches like completely annotated 3D model with
Geometric Dimensioning and Tolerancing (GD&T) which gives descrip-
tion of geometry of the physical instance and also all components of it and
it also includes bill, which consists of a list of all past and present compo-
nents. There is another bill also present, which is bill of process in which
there is list of operations conducted while creation of this physical instance
was going on. Even included are results of any tests and measurements on
the physical instance, a record which is service record that gives descrip-
tion of previous services conducted in past and replacement components
and operational states that were taken from real sensor data, present data,
previous real data and the one which is predicted for future. Apart from all
these mentioned things, more things can also be included here [13].
2.3.3 DTE
Now this is the one which is an integrated and multi-domain physics appli-
cation space for operating on the digital twins for a various different rea-
sons. These different reasons would include:
• Predictive
Here, as the name suggests, digital twins utilization would be
for prediction purposes. Prediction would be done for not
just future behavior but also for future performance of the
actual real product. In the prototype stage, prediction will be
done for the behavior of the product, which is designed as
well as for the components that differ between their low and
high tolerances. During prototype stage, there would be pre-
diction of behavior of the designed product along with com-
ponents, which vary between its high and low tolerances, so
as to make sure that the product, which was designed, actu-
ally met with the required or proposed requirements. In the
instance stage, the prediction would be a specific instance of
a specific physical product that included the actual compo-
nents and component history [13].



--- Página 45 ---

Introduction, History, and Concept of Digital Twin 25
• Interrogative
This one would apply to DTIs where they could be interro-
gated for current, as well as past, histories. Different instances
of products would provide data that would be correlated for
predicting future states [13].
Digital twin capability supports three of the most power-
ful tools in the human knowledge tool kit, which are concep-
tualization, comparison, and collaboration [23].
2.3.4 Conceptualization
By just looking at digital twin simulations, it allows people to view progress
of the actual object or product, the way it is proceeding further and view
information regarding characteristics of the actual product. This is much
easier than having a look at performance report of a factory and trying to
conceptualize regarding the product’s movement through different stations
[23].
2.3.5 Comparison
Using digital twin people can look at different characteristics, which are
ideal and can also look at tolerance corridor close by or surrounding that
ideal measurement, and also the actual trend line to find out for different
kind of products if the work is where the ones working on it wants it to be.
Basically, deviations, which include both negative and positive deviations
that can be permitted prior to a result being considered impermissible are
tolerance corridors. When this ability is present, it enables to conduct com-
parison and make adjustments for future operations [23].
2.3.6 Collaboration
The digital twin model permits sharing of conceptualization, which can be
visualized in exact same way as it is by as many as number of people and
these people need not be present at same location [23].
The NASA initially applied the digital twin concept during the Apollo
13 mission. According to NASA, the digital twin, is an imaginary compo-
nent of the actual model that incorporates numerous computational mod-
els developed in a computer.
The crucial part of this technology is information flow, which happens
between the actual and virtual systems. A number of authors have referred
to digital twin in different terms and based on its applicability.



--- Página 46 ---

26 Digital Twin Technology
Hence when digital twin is being talked about or referred, it is done with
different terms, such as digital model or digital model layout, digital coun-
terpart, doppelganger, clone, digital footprint, software analog, etc.
Digital twin has a great advantage as compared to other digital simu-
lation. Digital twin does not remain static. Digital twin has the ability to
update in real time.
Engineers can use a simulation to execute tests and assessments on a
virtual version of a physical object. However, the simulation is static. In
other words, unless the engineer adds new parameters to the simulation, it
will not keep up with the physical asset.
In contrast, a digital twin can obtain real-time activity update from the
actual object, process, or system. As a result, any kind of evaluation and
analysis work are done on the basis real-world scenarios.
The digital twin updates as it gets real-time data from the physical world,
changing its state dynamically based on the changes taking place in the
physical asset and delivering more accurate and valuable outputs.
2.4 Working Principle
To understand the working principle better, consider that a digital twin of
an existing physical product has to be created. Creation of a digital twin
of an already existing physical product means creation of a digital copy
or duplicate version of that physical product in a virtual environment,
where the digital copy or duplicate version resembles the original physical
product.
The digital twin model receives input from the data given by sensors
deployed on the real world product. The real world product can send data
to the digital twin model, i.e., its digital counterpart in real time and the
digital twin model can give information regarding the physical product.
So, the overall working principle involves real-time data of the product
and to get this real-time data, sensors are deployed on the real world prod-
uct. The digital copy of the real product is created and linked with the real
product. Real-time data of the physical object is of prime importance and
linking the real product with the digital copy allows real-time data trans-
mission. The real world product can send data to its digital counterpart in
real time. This enables the digital twin model to duplicate and recreate the
actions or changes taking place in the original version in real time, allow-
ing for giving information concerning performance of the product. The
digital twin model will be actually able to change its state dynamically as
per the changes in the physical product and give information, important



--- Página 47 ---

Introduction, History, and Concept of Digital Twin 27
particulars, and useful insights that could be applicable back to the physi-
cal product.
Whatever important information received from digital twin model,
which will be essential for the physical product, different important partic-
ulars and insights can be applied to the physical product for its betterment.
The digital twin can predict regarding the emergence of possible problems
in the future. This allows to prevent them from emerging in reality in the
product. This is its way of working and its working principle is clearly dis-
cussed and explained.
2.5 Characteristics of Digital Twin
Some of the characteristics of digital twin are explained as follows.
2.5.1 Homogenization
Digital twins enable data homogenization and are also the resultant of data
homogenization. Be it any kind of information or any kind of material, it can
be saved as well as sent in a same digital form. This allows it to be utilized
for constructing a virtual form of a product. Due to this, the data is broken
down from its real physical state. This break down of data from its real phys-
ical state and homogenization of data result into emergence of digital twins.
2.5.2 Digital Trail
Digital trail can cause digital trail to occur. This digital trail could be helpful
to check and find out from the digital twin of a particular device that where
things went wrong when it does not work as expected or it fails to work.
This could be very helpful for the device manufacturer so that in future
such things can be taken care of while working on device manufacturing.
2.5.3 Connectivity
Real-time data transmission from the original object or product to its digi-
tal twin gets enabled when the real object or product is linked or connected
with the digital twin model. Without this linking or connectivity, the
digital twin model cannot work. So connectivity is a very important char-
acteristic when it comes to digital twin.



--- Página 48 ---

28 Digital Twin Technology
2.6 Advantages
Digital twin has a lot many advantages. Some of them are listed and
explained below. They are as follows.
2.6.1 Companies Can Benefit From Digital Twin by Tracking
Performance-Related Data
By continuously tracking performance-related data in real time, with the
help of digital twin, companies can benefit from it. The different companies
can then optimize their products through it and enable overall progress
and gain.
2.6.2 Different Sector’s Progress Can Be Accelerated
Different sector progress can also be accelerated by the use of digital twins
because it can tell or predict the possible problems that can come.
Then, before the problem comes, some remedies for its prevention can
be applied. This will be helpful. This will also save any loss, which could
have happened due to the problems if they arise.
2.6.3 Digital Twins Can Be Used for Various Application
Digital twins can be used during product design and development. They
can be used for any product’s entire lifecycle management. They can be
used for monitoring the manufacturing process of a product. Similarly dig-
ital twins can be used for various other applications.
2.6.4 Digital Twin Can Help Decide Future Course of Work
Based on the digital twin’s prediction about the possible problems that can
come in future, what is required to be done, can be decided so that possible
future problems do not come. The information and insights digital twin
provides could be applied back to the original object or product for it to
improve and get better. This is yet another advantage of digital twin, which
will help largely and this is how digital twin can help decide future course
of work.



--- Página 49 ---

Introduction, History, and Concept of Digital Twin 29
2.6.5 Manufacturing Work Can Be Monitored
All the activities of the manufacturing process are very important. They
can be monitored through digital twin. Digital twin even makes remote
monitoring possible. This is a great advantage of digital twin.
2.7 Limitations
Digital twin is a new technology that has a lot of potential. However, there
are limitations as well, which impede digital twin’s growth. Some of the
limitations are as follows.
2.7.1 Data Transmission Could Have Delays and Distortions
As there is large amount of data generally generated by any physical prod-
uct and collected by sensors, which needs to be communicated in real-
time, delay and distortion could be caused while sending data to digital
twin. This will then delay the changes that need to be updated in real-time
in the digital twin.
2.7.2 Digital Twin Implementation Will Need Required Skills
and Sound Knowledge About It
Digital twin cannot be implemented without having great sound knowl-
edge about it. A person having great sound knowledge and required skills
will only be able to correctly implement digital twin and look after it.
2.8 Example of Digital Twin Application
Explained below is one real application of digital twin.
2.8.1 Digital Twin Application in General Electric (GE)
Renewable Energy
General Electric, abbreviated as GE has great presence in various differ-
ent sectors like healthcare, renewable energy, aviation, etc. GE is very well
utilizing digital twin for different purposes in its work across different sec-
tors like healthcare, renewable energy, etc. Here, we are talking regarding
digital twin application in GE renewable energy sector. GE has actually



--- Página 50 ---

30 Digital Twin Technology
introduced a Digital Wind Farm. They have used digital twin technology,
which helps to ensure that an optimum possible wind turbine is being built
for the actual farm wherever it is situated [24].
From above example, it is clear that digital twin is not just useful but it
also has a great positive impact when used in a particular application. It
has a far-reaching effect, which can transform things quickly and provide
great results.
2.9 Conclusion
Digital twin technology is receiving a lot of acclaim from different places. It is
a technology, which is very highly useful. It can be used in different applica-
tions at various sectors. The concept of digital twin technology is very simple.
In digital twin technology, a virtual model of the original object is cre-
ated, which looks the same as the original object. The digital twin also cop-
ies the original object’s behavior and is not static and can update in real
time by receiving real-time data from original object.
Digital twin name was coined by John Vickers from NASA in 2010.
Originally, the digital twin technological concept was first applied in 1970
by NASA during their Apollo 13 Mission. Now digital twin technology is
being applied in different applications successfully. Its advantages are great.
Though there are some limitations in digital twin as discussed in the chap-
ter, those limitations do not affect the advantages it can provide. However,
attention needs to be paid at its limitations. With appropriate steps taken
to overcome the limitations, they could be overcome.
The overall advantages of digital twin make it really very useful. It came
into limelight in the recent past, and due to its great advantages, it will
surely reach places. Various sectors will benefit from the digital twin tech-
nology. In this chapter, we saw a real example of application of digital twin
in General Electric (GE) renewable energy. It truly helps them greatly.
Likewise, there are at present various more applications of digital twin in
different sectors, which are providing great results. Digital twin technology
is indeed of great use.
References
1. Singh, M., Fuenmayor, E., Hinchy, E.P., Qiao, Y., Murray, N., Devine, D.,
Digital twin: Origin to future. Appl. Syst. Innov., 4, 36, 2021, https://doi.
org/10.3390/asi4020036.



--- Página 51 ---

Introduction, History, and Concept of Digital Twin 31
2. Kritzinger, W., Karner, M., Traar, G., Henjes, J., Sihn, W., Digital Twin in
manufacturing: A categorical literature review and classification, in: IFAC-
Papers online, vol. 51, pp. 1016–1022, 2018.
3. Glaessgen, E. and Stargel, D., The digital twin paradigm for future NASA and
U.S. Air Force vehicles. 53rd Structures, Structural Dynamics, and Materials
Conference, pp. 1–14, 2012.
4. Schluse, M. and Rossmann, J., From simulation to experimentable digital
twins: Simulation-based development and operation of complex technical
systems. IEEE International Symposium on Systems Engineering (ISSE), IEEE,
pp. 1–6, 2016.
5. Barricelli, B.R., Casiraghi, E., Fogli, D., A survey on digital twin: Definitions,
characteristics, applications, and design implications. IEEE Access, 7,
167653–167671, 2019.
6. Fuller, A., Fan, Z., Day, C., Research. IEEE Access, 8, 108952–108971, 2020.
7. Banerjee, A., Dalal, R., Mittal, S., Joshi, K.P., Generating digital twin models
using knowledge graphs for industrial production lines. Proc. Workshop Ind.
Knowl. Graphs (ACM Web Sci. Conf.), pp. 1–6, 2017.
8. Boschert, S., Heinrich, C., Rosen, R., Next generation digital twin. Proc.
TMCE, 209–218, 2018.
9. Madni, A.M., Madni, C., Lucero, S.D., Leveraging digital twin technology in
model-based systems engineering. Systems, 7, 1, 7, 2019.
10. Negri, E., Fumagalli, L., Macchi, M.A., Review of the roles of digital twin in
CPS-based production systems. Procedia Manuf, vol. 11, pp. 939–948, 2017.
11. Uhlemann, T.H.-J., Lehmann, C., Steinhilper, R., The digital twin: Realizing
the cyber-physical production system for industry 4.0. Procedia CIRP, vol.
61, pp. 335–340, 2017.
12. Schleich, B., Anwer, N., Mathieu, L., Wartzack, S., Shaping the digital twin
for design and production engineering. Annals, 66, 1, 141–144, 2017.
13. Grieves, M. and Vickers, J., Digital twin: Mitigating unpredictable, undesir-
able emergent behavior in complex systems, in: Transdisciplinary Perspectives
on Complex Systems, Kahlen FJ, S. Flumerfelt, A. Alves (Eds.), pp. 85–113,
Springer, Cham, 2017, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-38756-7_4.
14. Rosen, R., Von Wichert, G., Lo, G., Bettenhausen, K.D., About the impor-
tance of autonomy and digital twins for the future of manufacturing, in:
IFAC-Papers onlne, vol. 48, pp. 567–572, 2015.
15. Melesse, T.Y., Di Pasquale, V., Riemma, S., Digital twin models in industrial
operations: A systematic literature review. Proc. Manuf., 42, 267– 272, 2020.
16. Werner, A., Zimmermann, N., Lentes, J., Approach for a holistic predictive
maintenance strategy by incorporating a digital twin. Proc. Manuf., 39, 1743–
1751, 2019.
17. D’Amico, D., Ekoyuncu, J., Addipalli, S., Smith, C., Keedwell, E., Sibson, J.,
Penver, S., Conceptual framework of a digital twin to evaluate the degrada-
tion status of complex engineering systems. Procedia CIRP, vol. 86, p. 61 7,
2020.



--- Página 52 ---

32 Digital Twin Technology
18. Maropoulos, P. and Ceglarek, D., Design verification and validation in
product lifecycle. CIRP Ann. – Manuf. Technol., 59, 2, 740–759, 2010.
19. Addepalli, S., Roy, R., Axinte, D., Mehnen, J., In-situ’ inspection technolo-
gies: Trends in degradation assessment and associated technologies. Procedia
CIRP. 2017; 59(TESConf 2016), pp. 35–40.
20. David, J., Lobov, A., Lanz, M., Attaining learning Objectives by Ontological
Reasoning using Digital Twins. Procedia Manuf., 31, 349–355, 2019.
21. Brettel, M., Friederichsen, N., Keller, M., Rosenberg, M., How virtualiza-
tion, decentralization and network building change the manufacturing
landscape: An industry 4.0 perspective. Int. J. Mech. Aerospace Ind. Mechatron.
Eng., 8, 37–44, 2014.
22. Vrabič, R., Erkoyuncu, J.A., Butala, P., Roy, R., Digital twins: Understanding
the added value of integrated models for throughlife engineering services.
Procedia Manufacturing, pp. 139–146, 2018.
23. Grieves, M., Digital twin: Manufacturing excellence through virtual factory
replication, in: Digital Twin White Paper, vol. 1, W. Michael (Ed.), pp. 1–7,
Grieves LLC, 2014.
24. GE Renewable Energy, in: Meet the Digital Wind Farm, https://www.ge.com/
renewableenergy/stories/meet-the-digital-wind-farm.
25. Romero, D., Wuest, T., Harik, R., Thoben, K.D., Towards a cyber-physical
PLM environment: The role of digital product models, intelligent products,
digital twins, product avatars and digital shadows, in: IFAC-Papers Online,
vol. 53, pp. 10911–10916, 2020.
26. Cimino, C., Negri, E., Fumagalli, L., Review of digital twin applications in
manufacturing. Comput. Ind., 113, 103130, 2019.
27. Lin, W.D. and Low, M.Y.H., Concept design of a system architecture for
a manufacturing cyber-physical digital twin system. IEEE International
Conference on Industrial Engineering and Engineering Management (IEEM),
pp. 1320–1324, 2021.


