--- Página 53 ---

3
An Insight to Digital Twin
Anant Kumar Patel1*, Ashish Patel2 and Kanchan Mona Patel1
1Department of Pharmacology, Swami Vivekanand College of Pharmacy, Indore,
Madhya Pradesh, India
2Department of Medicine, M.G.M. Medical College, Indore, Madhya Pradesh, India
Abstract
In this modern world, technology is used everywhere almost in each sector. With
many technologies already present and with many more to come in the future,
there is a technology called digital twin, which is gaining popularity. Its popularity
is greatly growing. Digital twin is replication of any object, any system, product,
or process in virtual form. It provides great advantages and is a great technology.
There are different types of digital twins present. In this chapter, an insight to dig-
ital twin technology is provided. This technology is explained in detail, and dif-
ferent aspects of it are also explained in detail, like the working of digital twin, its
types, traits of digital twin, its advantages, etc. Some real examples of application
of digital twin are also stated in the chapter.
Keywords: Digital twin, digitalization, technology, digital replica, National
Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), digital model
3.1 Introduction
Digital twin is a technology with growing popularity. It has many advan-
tages, which are truly helpful in different sectors, which is why digital twin
popularity is growing. The concept of digital twin was introduced in the
year 2002 by Dr. Michael Grieves in a conference.
This was the first time that the digital twin technology was mentioned
and introduced in public at a conference. In 2010, John Vickers from
*Corresponding author: anantpatel08@gmail.com
Manisha Vohra (ed.) Digital Twin Technology: Fundamentals and Applications, (33–46) © 2023
Scrivener Publishing LLC
33



--- Página 54 ---

34 Digital Twin Technology
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) through the
medium of their report coined the name Digital Twin.
If compared from then till now then, it can be noticed that digital twin
has come a long way with respect to its growth, application areas, etc.
At present digital twin can be used for applications in many sectors like
healthcare, manufacturing, etc.
Initially when its name was coined, it was not much widespread as it is
now. It has come a long way, it has grown. A lot of progress can be noticed
but that’s not all. Digital twin is currently also still evolving.
In the year 2017, Gartner listed digital twin technology in top ten strate-
gic technology trends and listing in top ten is something which digital twin
technology truly deserves. The potential this technology has can help dif-
ferent companies, individuals, in fact, it can help different sectors largely.
Such is the potential of digital twin technology.
Digital twins concept has been around for decades and this technology,
when combined with the other technologies such as AR/VR, mixed reality,
3D printing, etc., will open doors for new applications and potential [1,
11]. Digital twin is receiving interest from academic as well as industrial
point of view [2]. A digital twin must be able to guarantee well-defined
services to support various activities like monitoring, maintenance, safety,
etc. [12]. Digital twin concepts aim to allow the observation of the behav-
ior of the whole system and prediction of the system behavior during the
utilization [13]. In a B2B context, digital twins of machine tools enable the
customers of the products being produced to receive real-time insights in
the manufacturing process [14]. Now recently, the need to formalize and
utilize the full potential of digital twin concepts arises from a combination
of technology push and market pull [3].
The digital twin lets virtual entities to exist simultaneously with physical
entities [22]. With the help of communication, digital twins throughout
their lifecycle change and evolve together with their physical counterparts
[6]. To provide smart/digital services in a product service system is it clearly
necessary to understand the three dimensions of technology-driven ser-
vice innovation: service ecosystem, service platform and value co- creation
[16]. Digital twin can be helpful here. Digital twin is a tool that can support
joint decision making by translating technical considerations into a busi-
ness context and helping to identify the consequences of different options
[17]. Irrespective of the location of stakeholders, they can access and mon-
itor the physical twin status, all thanks to digital twin [4].
For remaining competitive, manufacturers have to produce high- quality
products at low cost, and at the same time retain sufficient flexibility and
digital twin can definitely help manufacturers to achieve this objective



--- Página 55 ---

An Insight to Digital Twin 35
[15]. On the basis of system operation and maintenance history, digital
twin is an important enabler for improving system maintenance over time
[8]. Digital twin seems to be the best suitable source of knowledge within
the Smart Factory [18]. Digital twins are expected to enrich the existent
asset information system, thus enhancing the informed decision-making
in asset management [23]. A digital twin framework is also offered as a
commercial solution [24].
In industry 4.0, digital twin application is highly being encouraged.
Apart from digital twin, cyber-physical digital twin is something that is
gaining attention and is being talked about a lot regarding its application
in Industry 4.0. It only took off in recent years with the advancement of
ICT technologies [9]. Other sectors like construction, automotive are also
experiencing the increasing growth of digital twin application. For exam-
ple, in automotive sector, digital twins are used to simulate cars driving in
close-to-reality environments [5]. In healthcare sector as well, digital twin
application is growing. However, the digital twin architectures need to
make sure that accurate system health management predictions are made
to help avoid excessive runtime costs [19].
3.2 Understanding Digital Twin
Digital twin is a technology, which works in a virtual environment. It can
transform things greatly in a particular sector where it is applied. It can
provide many advantages.
Digital twin is replication of any object, system, product or process in
virtual form. Digital twin can also be called a digital replica of any object,
system, product or process. When a digital twin of an existing object or
system is made, it remains linked or connected with its original real world
counterpart throughout the lifecycle of that particular object or system.
This connectivity is a great characteristic of digital twin. With the help of
this connectivity, all real-time data of the real world object or system can be
transmitted to the digital twin. This enables digital to update in real-time.
Digital twin will also go through the same changes that the real world
object or system is going through. The digital twin model works in a vir-
tual environment as mentioned earlier. This both things are advantageous
as these both things allows and makes monitoring the real world object or
system using digital twin effective and easier as remote monitoring then
becomes possible and can be done. The behavior of the real object or sys-
tem will also be copied by digital twin, i.e. digital twin will also behave like
the original real world object or system. Digital twin can predict any issue
or problem before it occurs in real world object or system and can inform



--- Página 56 ---

36 Digital Twin Technology
regarding it. This is like a damage or loss prevention advantage of digital
twin as through this advantage, any issue or problem which could occur in
the real world object or system can be prevented from occurring which will
prevent the damage or loss it could have caused.
When discussing and talking about digital twin technology, there are
different terms which come into light like Digital Model, Digital Shadow,
Digital Twin. There are some misconceptions regarding these terms in lit-
erature. Below all three terms are defined which will help to clear the mis-
conceptions [25].
The first term is Digital Model, the second term which will be defined
is Digital Shadow and the third term that will be defined is Digital Twin.
Digital Model: In a digital model there is no exchange of data happen-
ing automatically between real object and digital model. The Digital model
can be understood as digital version of an already existing real object or a
digital version of a real object which is planned. The fact that there is no
automatic exchange of data taking place between digital model and the real
object or system is a vital defining feature. So after creating a digital model,
any changes if made to the real object will not at all have any kind of impact
on the created digital model either way [25].
Digital Shadow: Digital shadow is basically a digital representation of
a real object. In Digital Shadow, there is one way data flow taking place
between real object and digital version of the object.
Digital Twin: It is the one where there is flow of data between an already
existing real object and a digital object and they are fully integrated in both
directions [25].
In 2002, digital twin technology concept was presented at a conference
by Dr. Michael Grieves. He presented it as an “Ideal Concept for Project
Lifecycle Management (PLM)” as back then in 2002, digital twin technol-
ogy was not recognized by its same name. Its name was coined later on
in 2010. Digital twin is useful in project lifecycle management and in the
presentation given by Dr. Michael Grieves at the conference in 2002, his
Ideal Concept for PLM” had all elements of digital twin. The elements were
virtual space, real space, link for flow of data from real to virtual space
and link for flow of information from virtual to real space and virtual sub-
spaces [10]. This conference presentation has always been an important
part in the history of digital twin.
3.3 Digital Twin History
Digital twins history can be understood from some digital twin related
important developments that have taken place from the time of its origin



--- Página 57 ---

An Insight to Digital Twin 37
till now. National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) had uti-
lized digital twin concept in 1970 during the Apollo 13 program. Thus,
digital twin concept is dated back to Apollo program of NASA [7]. So this
is marked as the maiden instance where digital twin technology was used.
Though before 1970, NASA was working on digital twin concept, in 1960s
but its use during the Apollo 13 program was marked as the first instance
of its use.
Thereafter, in the book Mirror Worlds David Gelernter had written
about digital twins. It was published in 1991. Michael Grieves was the
first person who presented or introduced the digital twin topic in public
in 2002 in one conference. This concept was named the “digital twin”
by NASA’s John Vickers in a 2010 in a report. After that till today, dig-
ital twin has gained a lot of popularity and is being applied in different
sectors.
3.4 Essential Aspects From Working Perspectives
of Digital Twin
There are some essential aspects of digital twin from its working perspec-
tive. Before understanding the working of digital twin in detail, let us go
through and understand some of the essential aspects.
A digital twinning model of the original object is one of the most
essential aspects from working perspectives which is required to be
create. Original object data are also another most essential aspect. For
getting data, sensors would be needed. The sensors will give data and
hence even they are one of the essential aspects from working perspec-
tives. The linking of the object in real world with digital twin in virtual
world which can be viewed and considered as the linking of the real
world with virtual world is yet another essential aspect from the work-
ing perspective.
Thus, from working perspectives of digital twin, the digital twinning
model of the original object, object data, sensors, etc. are some of the
essential aspects as discussed above.
3.5 How Does a Digital Twin Work?
The digital twin model created an object or system that already exists in
real world will have the same looks or appearance as that of the original



--- Página 58 ---

38 Digital Twin Technology
physical object or system. So if there is an object or system, which is
already produced, and its digital twin is created, then how it will work is
explained below.
Sensors are deployed to obtain real-time data from the original object,
which includes different aspects related to the performance of the object,
its functionality, etc. Hence, sensors play a very important role here. A
digital copy of the original object is created. It is the replicated version of
the original object in a virtual environment.
For sending real-time data to its digital copy, a connectivity between
them is required, and hence, they are connected or linked together. By
this linking, real-time data can be transmitted easily and whenever there
are changes in the real object, in accordance to it, there will be those same
changes in the digital twin model as well.
Linking is very important. It allows transmission of data and keeps
the digital twin in sync with the original object in real time. Digital twin
model can run simulations. It can predict possible problems which could
be faced in the object. It can give information and insights, which are very
useful. This is how its work is carried out. Monitoring of the object using
digital twin model can also be done.
So according to the elements of digital twin as rightly stated by [19]
which are explained above, it can be seen its working also involves and
relies on it, the real object in real space, the virtual or twin model created
in virtual space, and the link between the two.
3.6 Insights to Digital Twin Technology Concept
Digital twin working is easy to understand as seen above. Now let us gain
some insights to digital twin technology concept.
In digital twin technology, depending upon the type of application, we
can have:
• Parts twins or components twins
• Product twins,
• System twins and
• Process twins.
3.6.1 Parts Twins
There is always a need for durable parts. It lies at the heart of digital
twinning. Engineers can now grasp the different characteristics like the



--- Página 59 ---

An Insight to Digital Twin 39
mechanical, electrical, etc. of a part through virtual representations of the
individual components.
3.6.2 Product Twins
Individual parts when they work together will form a product. Product
twins will allow to understand the manner in which these individual
parts interact and will give important performance related informational
data which can be processed and insights can be gained and given to the
manufacturers.
3.6.3 System Twins
System twins allows to view how disparate products come together
and work to achieve a system-level goal of obtaining a functional sys-
tem. Basically, system twins allow to view how different products come
together for forming a system, which is functional. System twins provides
insight about products interaction and can give suggestions to improve
performance.
3.6.4 Process Twins
Process twins are the ones which actually tell how different systems work
with each other for creating a manufacturing facility. Whether the different
systems that are working with each other are in sync to operate at peak
efficiency or if there is a delay in supposing any one particular system then
will the other systems working together be affected as well are things that
need to be known. Process twins can help here. It can find out the exact
timing schemes which will eventually have an impact on overall efficiency.
3.7 Types of Digital Twin
During defining digital twins in paper [10], authors Dr. Michael Grieves
and John Vickers have discussed and described types of digital twin. They
are:
• Digital Twin Prototype (DTP) and
• Digital Twin Instance (DTI).



--- Página 60 ---

40 Digital Twin Technology
Digital twins (DTs) are operated on in a Digital Twin Environment
(DTE) [10].
Let us understand these types in detail.
3.7.1 Digital Twin Prototype (DTP)
It is digital twin type, which tells about prototypical physical artifact. DTP
has information sets that are much needed to tell and produce a real phys-
ical version which replicates or twins the virtual version [10].
3.7.2 Digital Twin Instance (DTI)
An individual digital twin is kept linked to a particular corresponding
physical product throughout the life of this particular product and partic-
ular product is described by DTI digital twin [10].
3.7.3 Digital Twin Environment (DTE)
This is an integrated, multidomain physics application space for operating
on digital twins for a variety of purposes. These purposes include:
• Predictive
• Interrogative
Predictive: Here, the digital twin would be used for making prediction of
future behavior and performance of the physical product.
Interrogative: This would apply to DTIs. The DTIs could be interrogated
for the current and past histories [10].
3.8 Traits of Digital Twin
There are different traits of digital twin. Some of them are listed and
explained below.
3.8.1 Look Same as the Original Object
Digital twin have the same look as that of the original object. Since digital
twin replicates the original object, it has the same look that the original
object has. This eases the work of the ones using digital twin for their work.
For example, if suppose a company for one of their product is using digital



--- Página 61 ---

An Insight to Digital Twin 41
twin. They do not have to visualize changes taking place in their product.
They can view it and that too from remote location, thanks to digital twin.
Having same look as the original object is a great trait of digital twin.
3.8.2 Consists Different Details of the Original Object
The digital twin just does not looks same as the original object, it even
includes and consists of different minor details of the original object.
Different details of the original object is included in the original object.
This trait adds to the efficiency of the digital twin technology and thanks to
this trait of digital twin, monitoring of the original object from any remote
location can be not just done but it can be done very effectively. If digital
twin would look the same as the original object but would not consist of
different details of the object then it would not be an effective replicate.
Hence, this trait of digital twin is also a great trait of digital twin.
3.8.3 Behaves Same as the Original Object
The digital twin behaves the same as the original object. When digital twin
replicates the look and all the minor details of the original real world object,
it even replicates how the original object behaves. Digital twin model very
well copies the behavior of the original object and behaves same as the
original object.
3.8.4 Can Predict and Inform in Advance About Problems
That Could Occur
Digital twin can predict and tell in advance about different problems that
could occur. Digital twin has this wonderful trait that it can actually pre-
dict the possible future problems that can occur which is a great advantage
of using digital twin. When the problems that could possibly occur in an
object, product, process, etc. is known in advance with the help of digital
twin, then it can be avoided from occurring in reality. This will be so use-
ful. Hence, this trait of digital twin is a phenomenal trait.
3.9 Value of Digital Twin
The thought or argument for digital twin is that information is substitute
for waste gone resources, namely, energy, time, and material. All these are
important physical resources. When information is used, it can, to a great



--- Página 62 ---

42 Digital Twin Technology
extent, reduce all this wastage of resources which are energy, time and
material i.e. physical resources. When digital twin is viewed through its
lifecycle, it can be viewed clearly that in creation phase or create phase, all
the physical resources which are energy, time, and material that get wasted
along with time occupying expensive production of actual real prototypes
can be saved, and they are actually allowed to be saved by modeling and
simulating the behavior, as well as the form through digital twin proto-
type. Then in create or creation phase and downstream, resources can be
saved and are in fact saved by discovering unpredicted undesirable (UU)
behavior and finding out predicted undesirable (PU) behavior with sim-
ulations. Thereafter, talking about production phase, here trial and error
manufacturing can be decreased by simulating manufacture prior to
it actually occurs and this is how trial and error manufacturing can be
decreased. To comprehend which components with which specifications
are in each system that is produced, the as-built information needs to be
collected. Collecting this information will only allow to comprehend about
the components and its specifications in each system which is produced.
With digital twin, we can comprehend how to maintain the system more
effectively and efficiently in support/sustainment or operations phase as
digital twin is the one which can allow us to do so. Additionally, the cost of
unforeseen “normal accidents” can be well saved if unpredicted, as well as
predicted undesirable behaviors can be prevented. It is claimed that life of
a human is precious, it is priceless but by limiting the tests for a cost is put
on life. This means we only test for a subset of states the systems can take.
However, by using digital twin the cost that is incurred in preventing loss
of life by testing more states can be dramatically lowered. If we are having
the information regarding the system, to be specific, information regarding
how the design of the system was done to be safely retired and/or decom-
missioned in the disposal phase then this will be very helpful. It will, to a
great extent, decrease the impact which is cost on the environment [10].
Thus, it can be seen clearly that digital twin has great value and is helpful to
a great extent. It is so useful. It is having potential to largely reduce resource
wastage occurring in different system lifecycle [10].
3.10 Advantages of Digital Twin
Below are some of the advantages of digital twin.
• Anticipation or prediction of problems is possible using
digital twin. The problems which could possibly turn up in



--- Página 63 ---

An Insight to Digital Twin 43
future in a product, object, etc. can be predicted using digital
twin.
• It can be used in monitoring the real object, product or pro-
cess. Digital twin can receive real-time data and update in
accordance with the changes occurring in real object, prod-
uct or process. It will also go through the same changes as
the real object, product or process goes through and that too
in real-time.
• Predictive maintenance work of objects, products, etc. can
be carried out using digital twin.
• It can be used in getting insights and information regard-
ing the real object or product’s working performance. The
insights can be applied to the real object or product.
3.11 Real-World Examples of Use of Digital Twin
Digital twin is already being used in real-world application in differ-
ent places. Below are some real world examples of use of digital twin
technology.
Digital twin is being used by Tesla, Inc. for their cars. Tesla, Inc. is a
well-renowned company. This company very well uses the digital twin
technology for their cars. All Tesla cars that are sold have a digital twin
for it. A digital twin is specially created for every car that Tesla is selling.
On an everyday basis then, all the data collected by the sensors from each
car is taken into account and then used for updating its software accord-
ingly and then software update is sent. This means the software updates
are very efficiently prepared taking into account all the data given by
sensors from each car. This ensures all the bugs, existing loopholes, and
all other issues and shortcomings are dealt with in the required man-
ner and overcome with the correct solution or response needed via the
software update. Tesla then sends this efficiently prepared updates for
the cars. Tesla thus very well uses the digital twin technology for their
cars. Similarly, just like this example of Tesla, there are other real world
examples of use of digital twin at different places. General electric (GE)
is using digital twin technology for their wind turbines. They are creating
digital twin of their turbines [20]. Digital twin technology is proving to
be useful for them. Bridgestone Corporation is using digital twin tech-
nology for their tyre development [21]. Similarly companies make use of
digital twin technology for different application. Digital twin has surely
made its place in different sectors, for various applications but to become



--- Página 64 ---

44 Digital Twin Technology
a commonly used technology at different places, it has a long way to go.
It is still evolving.
3.12 Conclusion
Digital twin is an effective technology. It has great advantages which are
discussed, seen, and explained in this chapter. Also, the essential aspects
from working perspectives of digital twin are discussed in this chapter. The
work of digital twin is also explained in the chapter. Its work is easy to
understand. Digital twin is an efficient technology. On receiving real-time
data of an existing original object, the digital twin will also update accord-
ing to it and present the changes happening in the original object. The
existing original object remains linked and connected with the digital twin
throughout the period of its lifecycle. Such is the connectivity in digital
twin which helps in keeping the original object and the digital twin of it in
sync together.
There are different types of digital twins present as explained in the
chapter. Digital twin technology concept was first used in 1970 and it
proved to be useful. At that time, it was used in one particular application
but now, this technology is being used in different applications. Digital
twin is very helpful in product development, anticipation or prediction of
problems, cost saving, etc. and can be used in different sectors to optimize
existing operations and services, and can even help to bring transforma-
tion and innovation. Its presence in whichever particular application it is
being used is helpful and it does make a great difference. Altogether, with
different advantages that digital twin provides, it is a supportive and help-
ful technology.
Some real world application examples of digital twin are also stated in
this chapter. Tesla uses digital twin technology for their cars. Tesla are great
example of real world application of digital twin which is stated in this
chapter. Similarly, GE and Bridgestone also use digital twin technology for
their wind turbines and tyre development respectively. Thus, digital twin
when used in a particular application, it provides different benefits. It is
clear that digital twin technology is highly helpful in different applications
and is an useful technology.



--- Página 65 ---

An Insight to Digital Twin 45
References
1. Singh, M., Fuenmayor, E., Hinchy, E.P., Qiao, Y., Murray, N., Devine, D.,
Digital twin: Origin to future. Appl. Syst. Innov., 4, 36, 2021.
2. Jones, D., Snider, C., Nassehi, A., Yon, J., Hicks, B., Characterising the digital
twin: A systematic literature review. CIRP J. Manuf. Sci. Technol., 29, 36–52,
2020.
3. Rasheed, A., San, O., Kvamsdal, T., Digital twin: Values, challenges and
enablers. IEEE Access, 8, 21980–22012, 2020.
4. Barricelli, B.R., Casiraghi, E., Fogli, D., A survey on digital twin: Definitions,
characteristics, applications, and design implications. IEEE Access, 7,
167653–167671, 2019.
5. Schluse, M. and Rossmann, J., From simulation to experimentable digital
twins: Simulation-based development and operation of complex technical
systems, in: IEEE International Symposium on Systems Engineering (ISSE),
IEEE, pp. 1–6, 2016.
6. Vrabic, R., Erkoyuncu, J.A., Butala, P., Roy, R., Digital twins: Understanding
the added value of integrated models for through-life engineering services.
Proc. Manuf., 16, 139–146, 2018.
7. Rosen, R., Wichert, G.V., Lo, G., Bettenhausen, K.D., About the importance
of autonomy and digital twins for the future of manufacturing, in: IFAC-
Paper online, vol. 48, pp. 567–572, 2015.
8. Madni, A., Madni, C., Lucero, S., Leveraging digital twin technology in
model-based systems engineering. Systems, 7, 7, 2019.
9. Lin, W.D. and Low, M.Y.H., Concept design of a system architecture for a
manufacturing cyber-physical digital twin system, in: IEEE International
Conference on Industrial Engineering and Engineering Management (IEEM),
pp. 1320–1324, 2021.
10. Grieves, M. and Vickers, J., Digital twin: Mitigating unpredictable, undesir-
able emergent behavior in complex systems, in: Transdisciplinary Perspectives
on Complex Systems, Kahlen FJ, S. Flumerfelt, A. Alves (Eds.), pp. 85–113,
Springer, Cham, 2017, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-38756-7_4.
11. David, J., Lobov, A., Lanz, M., Leveraging digital twins for assisted learning
of flexible manufacturing systems, in: 2018 IEEE 16th International
Conference on Industrial Informatics (INDIN), IEEE, Porto, pp. 529–535, July
2018.
12. Cimino, C., Negri, E., Fumagalli, L., Review of digital twin applications in
manufacturing. Comput. Ind., 113, 103130, 2019.
13. Lohtander, M., Ahonen, N., Lanz, M., Ratava, J., Kaakkunen, J., Micro
manufacturing unit and the corresponding 3d-model for the digital twin.
Proc. Manuf., 25, 55–61, 2018.



--- Página 66 ---

46 Digital Twin Technology
14. Romero, D., Wuest, T., Harik, R., Thoben, K.D., Towards a cyber-physical
PLM environment: The role of digital product models, intelligent products,
digital twins, product avatars and digital shadows, in: IFAC-Papers online,
vol. 53, pp. 10911–10916, 2020.
15. Jeon, S.M. and Kim, G., A survey of simulation modeling techniques in pro-
duction planning and control (PPC). Prod. Plan. Control, 27, 360–377, 2016.
16. West, S., Gaiardelli, P., Rapaccini, M., Exploring technology-driven service
innovation in manufacturing firms through the lens of service dominant
logic, in: IFAC-Papers online, vol. 51, pp. 1317–1322, 2018.
17. West, S., Stoll, O., Meierhofer, J., Züst, S., Digital twin providing new oppor-
tunities for value co-creation through supporting decision-making. Appl.
Sci., 11, 3750, 2021.
18. Longo, F., Nicoletti, L., Padovano, A., Ubiquitous knowledge empowers the
smart factory: The impacts of a service-oriented digital twin on enterprises’
performance. Annu. Rev. Control, 47, 221–236, 2019.
19. Khan, S., Farnsworth, M., McWilliam, R., Erkoyuncu, J., On the require-
ments of digital twin-driven autonomous maintenance. Annu. Rev. Control,
50, 13–28, 2020.
20. GE Renewable Energy, Meet the Digital Twin Wind Turbines, Building
a Digital Twin, Bolstering the Power of a Wind Turbine. https://
www.ge.com/renewableenergy/stories/improving-wind-power-with-
digital-twin-turbines.
21. Bridgestone, How Bridgestone’s Virtual Tyre Modelling Revolutionalising
Tyre Development. https://www.bridgestone.co.uk/story/mobility/how-
bridgestones-virtual-tyre-modelling-is-revolutionising-tyre-development.
22. Kaarlela, T., Pieskä, S., Pitkäaho, T., Digital twin and virtual reality for
safety training. Proceedings of the 2020 11th IEEE International Conference on
Cognitive Infocommunications (CogInfoCom), pp. 115–120, 2020.
23. Macchi, M., Roda, I., Negri, E., Fumagalli, L., Exploring the role of digital
twin for asset lifecycle management, in: IFAC-Papers online, pp. 790–795,
2018.
24. Josifovska, K., Yigitbas, E., Engels, G., Reference framework for dig-
ital twins within cyber-physical systems, in: Proceedings of the 5th
International Workshop on Software Engineering for Smart Cyber Physical
Systems (SEsCPS’19), IEEE Press, pp. 25–31, 2019, https://doi.org/10.1109/
SEsCPS.2019.00012.
25. Fuller, A., Fan, Z., Day, C., Barlow, C., Digital twin: Enabling technologies,
challenges and open research. IEEE Access, 8, 108952–108971, 2020.


