--- Página 67 ---

4
Digital Twin Solution Architecture
Suhas D. Joshi
*
Olyphaunt Solutions, Pvt. Ltd., Pune, India
Abstract
A digital twin simulates the state and the behavior of a physical object in real
time. This work focuses on primarily the digital twin solution architecture. The
emphasis is on how the digital twin can be designed to deliver common use cases.
From an architecture standpoint, a digital twin is a collection of several differ-
ent software services, applications and data stores. In this chapter, we will first
review how the physical object can be connected to the digital twin through the
Internet of Things (IoT) and then see a layered view of the digital twin solution
architecture. A description of the layered view and components in each layer will
follow. An explanation of the data flow across digital twin components will show
how various components work together. The digital twin solution architecture is
explained through various viewpoints including data stores, user experience, inte-
gration with external applications, application programming interface (API), and
cyber security. The solution architecture is presented at a conceptual level and is
not tied to a framework, platform, or solution from a particular vendor. Concepts
in the digital twin solution architecture are illustrated through examples from the
world of discrete manufacturing.
Keywords: Digital twin use cases, digital twin solution architecture, digital twin
services, digital twin applications, digital twin development considerations,
digital twin definition, digital twin integration with other applications
4.1 Introduction
As the speed of digital transformation increases globally, more and more
physical objects are being represented as digital twins in the cyber-world.
Email: Suhas.Joshi@Olyphaunt.com
*
Manisha Vohra (ed.) Digital Twin Technology: Fundamentals and Applications, (47–76) © 2023
Scrivener Publishing LLC
47



--- Página 68 ---

48 Digital Twin Technology
A digital twin simulates the state and the behavior of a physical object in
real-time. The physical object could be a sensor, a machine, a building or an
airport. The benefits of a real-time digital twin solution are better action-
able insight in the working of the object, significant reduction in waste and
improvement productivity without compromising quality.
In this chapter, we will review how to design the digital twin software
solution to:
• Model a physical object and the eco-system in which it
operates
• Connect to the physical object in the real-world and process
data from the object
• Simulate in real-time the operation of the physical object to
determine any potential issues and risks
• Track the present performance and predict the future per-
formance of the object.
After reviewing “what” the digital twin has to deliver to the various
user persona, this work presents “how” the digital twin will deliver the
expected requirements. The digital twin conceptual solution architecture
is presented through several viewpoints such as a functional model, logical
model, data stores, interfaces, user experience and cyber security.
The focus of this chapter is on presenting a conceptual solution archi-
tecture for a digital twin. Our discussion will not include proprietary or
commercial off-the-shelf solutions, services, frameworks or a platform
provided by a specific vendor. Also, we will not describe physical infra-
structure, such as servers, storage, network, firewalls, and load-balancers,
required for implementing a digital twin solution because that depends
upon specific functional and non-functional requirements.
In order to give a practical example after describing the conceptual solu-
tion architecture, we will review an example from the world of discrete
manufacturing to illustrate how a digital twin can be designed.
4.2 Previous Work
Many researchers and practitioners have published about digital twins. A
review of 87 implementations of digital twin and a proposal for a general-
ized architecture instead of domain specific architecture is found in [26].
The digital twin concept is reviewed in 6 dimensions including industrial
sector, purpose, physical reference object, completeness, creation time, and



--- Página 69 ---

Digital Twin Solution Architecture 49
connection. A review of the state of the art concerning the key components
of digital twins, development of digital twin, and the major digital applica-
tions in industry are described in [27].
An explanation of how digital twin can be used in manufacturing for
production planning and control, process control and condition based
maintenance is given in [28]. A description of the role a digital twin plays
in the context of Industry 4.0 is presented in [29]. [30] focuses on creating
a digital twin for an aircraft. Topics discussed include product identifica-
tion, life cycle, configuration, models and software applications in the air-
craft digital twin.
There are several works related to the architecture of digital twins. [31]
describes the digital twin concept and how it applies across the prod-
uct life cycle in understanding and testing system behavior. [32] lists the
development tools that may be used for developing a digital twin with
a focus on Big Data and Artificial Intelligence. Six possible digital twin
architectures are proposed in [33] including IIoT, big data, mixed reality,
simulation, complex systems and cloud computing. [34] focuses on using
UML and OCL models for a high level digital twin design. [35] models
the interactions between cyber-cyber and physical-cyber systems. [35]
also shows how a Bayesian network and fuzzy logic can be used to select
models for inter- system interactions. [36] lists several new use cases that
a digital twin will have to support for smart connected product systems
(SCPS).
The adoption of blockchain technology is increasing for tracking assets
and transactions in a network. Use of blockchain will increase in the digital
twin also. Also, data related to transactions, logs, and history are not secure
or tamper-proof. Systems and technologies leveraged for the creation of
digital twins are mostly centralized and fall short of providing trusted data
provenance, audit, and traceability, according to [37]. A blockchain-based
creation process of digital twins is suggested to guarantee secure and
trusted traceability, accessibility, and immutability of transactions, logs,
and data provenance.
4.2.1 How This Work Differs
This work is somewhat different compared to the other works mentioned
earlier in that it explains step-by-step, how to design a digital twin for
a physical object. This work demystifies the design of a digital twin and
shows how to structure the digital twin solution in a clear, comprehensive
and pragmatic way. The architecture approach presented in this work cov-
ers all the possible viewpoints such as functionality, scalability, security,



--- Página 70 ---

50 Digital Twin Technology
openness, agility, integration with other applications, ease of use and user
experience. An incremental approach is presented so that the architect can
first focus on the foundation and then build additional functionality as
needed. Throughout this work, the solution architecture concepts are illus-
trated with an example of a digital twin for a grinding machine.
4.3 Use Cases
Persona, such as users or operators, managers, and maintenance techni-
cians, generally work with different types of physical objects, whether the
object is a machine, a plant, or a building. Depending on the physical object
the digital twin represents, the specific use cases may be different, but the
following table is an example of what various persona would require from
a digital twin.
Persona Sample use cases
1 User 1. Remotely monitor the status of the object,
i.e., whether it is in service or running in
degraded mode or out of service.
2. Receive alerts if the object has failed or is
going to fail
3. View any active errors and warnings
4. Need object performance metrics along with
a comparison between planned and actual
performance
5. View Work Instructions regarding how to
complete a specific operation with the object
6. Need automatically generated
recommendations based on the current
performance of the physical object
2 Manager 7. Know “Remaining Useful Life (RUL)” for the
object
8. Need to see digital data such as object
status, along with any alerts and the possible
financial impact of the alert, superimposed
over the physical view of the object
9. Determine the status, alerts and values of
critical parameters by running queries across
a set of digital twins in the enterprise.
(Continued)



--- Página 71 ---

Digital Twin Solution Architecture 51
(Continued)
3 Maintenance 10. View Work Instructions regarding how to
Technician complete a repair task super-imposed over
the physical view of the object.
11. Receive an alert from the digital twin about
replacing a part before the part fails
12. Receive recommendations about how to
recover from an error, malfunction or
a condition that is causing the object to
under-perform
4 User in training 13. Receive work instructions regarding how
to complete a specific operation. Work
instructions should be super-imposed over
the physical view of the object.
5 Design Engineer 14. See estimated critical property values when
property values are not physically available
from the object.
15. View calculated parameters for a range of
objects while the objects are in use
6 Analyst 16. Would like to write ad-hoc reporting
applications based on the data generated by
the digital twin
7 Spare part 17. Digital twin should be able to send an order
management to the spare part management application.
application
8 Production 18. Digital twin should be able to receive the
planning production planning schedule from the
application planning application.
4.4 Architecture Considerations
Users of a digital twin will focus primarily on digital twin functional
requirements. But solution architects, need to keep in mind the following
important considerations.
• Ability to work for different physical objects: The digital
twin solution will be able to work for multiple objects and
not just one object.



--- Página 72 ---

52 Digital Twin Technology
• Scalability: Digital twin should be only constrained by
resources, such as memory and storage. The design and
should not limit the number of instances to a fixed value.
• Data Sharing: Digital twin should be able to share the out-
put data so that developers or citizen users can write ad-hoc
applications to use the output data.
• Open architecture: The digital twin should integrate with
other applications in the eco-system. It should receive and
send data to other applications through well-defined appli-
cation programming interfaces (APIs).
• Event driven: Digital twin solution architecture should be
designed to process events in real time. For example, as data
are generated, it should get processed.
• Cyber-Security: The solution architecture should imple-
ment security of data at rest and data in motion and role-
based access control (RBAC).
• User Experience: The digital twin solution should be
designed to support local, as well as remote users. Secondly,
user experience should support the ability to view the phys-
ical object and super-impose digital data on the physical
view.
4.5 Understanding the Physical Object
Before working on the digital twin solution architecture, it is important to
understand how the physical object operates. The following is a sample list
of sample questions that the solution architect will have to ask.
• Object Properties: What are the properties, e.g., unique
identifier, location, etc. associated with the physical object?
Example: Suppose that a digital twin needs to be developed
for a grinding machine in a manufacturing plant. There
are several grinding machines in the plant. Each machine
should have a unique identifier, e.g., “GR001.”
• Calculated data: What is the data available from the physi-
cal object? Is the data generated in real-time or produced in
bulk? If certain data are not available directly from the phys-
ical object, but is of interest, how can it be derived? What is
the model that will help derive the required data?



--- Página 73 ---

Digital Twin Solution Architecture 53
Example: In case of a grinding machine, the speed (in revo-
lutions per minute) at which the grinding wheel is spinning
is available through a sensor and is available in real-time
every second. The temperature of the grinding wheel is of
interest but is not available from a sensor. The temperature
increases in a nonlinear way with grinding wheel speed.
Grinding wheel wear is based on the highest temperature
and the duration. In this case, the digital twin will be able to
calculate the temperature and wear based on other available
data.
• Process Model: What is the function of the physical object?
What is the input, process and output implemented when
the object operates? Can the operation of the physical object
be modeled as a state machine? How long will the physical
object be in a certain state? What is the speed at which work
is done when the physical object is in a particular state?
Example: There are multiple states that describe the oper-
ation of the grinding machine: idle, working and “out of
service.” Working state has three substates, i.e., ramp-up,
grinding, and ramp-down. When the grinding wheel is
not spinning, it is in idle state. If it is spinning with a speed
greater than 0 but less than 500 RPM, it is in ramp-up state.
If the grinding wheel spins at a rate of 500 RPM or higher, it
is in grinding state. If the grinding wheel speed drops below
500 RPM, it is considered in ramp-down state provided it
was previously in grinding state. At any time, there is an
issue with the grinding machine, the user will push a button
on the grinding machine and signal the “out of service” state.
• Context: What is the overall eco-system, which the physical
object belongs to? Are there relationships (e.g., a parent-child
relationship) with other objects and potentially other digital
twins? Are there components within the physical object that
need to be modeled as digital twins also?
Example: A specific grinding machine has a relationship
with other entities in the context such as the manufactur-
ing line in which the machine is located. Also, the grinding
machine has other components such as the electrical motor
and coolant delivery system which can be separately mod-
eled. A sample context diagram for machines in a manufac-
turing plant is shown in Figure 4.1 as follows.



--- Página 74 ---

54 Digital Twin Technology
Enterprise
1:N contains
Plant
contains
1:N
Manufacturing
Line
contains
1:N
1:1 produces Telemetry
Operator uses Grinding 1:N Data
Machine
contains
1:N
Electrical Motor
Figure 4.1 Example context diagram.
When a suitable point and click user interface is implemented to sup-
port the context, a user will be able to navigate through the context and
display the desired content. Similarly, the user will be able to formulate
queries, such as show the status of all grinding machines in all plants in a
specific geographic region.
• Physical Details
Is there a 3-D drawing that can be used for knowing more
details about the physical object? Does a bill of materials
exist that shows all the components that make up the physi-
cal object?
Example: There is a 3-D drawing available for the grinding
machine. The 3-D model will help in visualizing the physical
object in various applications.
• Components
What are the components contained within the physical
object?
Example: The grinding machine contains two electrical
motors. Each has a different capacity and speed of operation.
• Telemetry Data
What is the data generated by the physical object? Is the data
sent as an event e.g., periodically? How frequently is the data
sent?



--- Página 75 ---

Digital Twin Solution Architecture 55
Example: When the grinding operation is in progress, the
grinding machine sends the speed (RPM) at which the grinding
wheel is running, every 5 seconds. The grinding machine sends
the state when the state value changes. For example, initially the
state is idle, then it changes to running or out of service.
• External applications and systems
What are the external applications or systems that the phys-
ical object will work with? How will the digital twin make
data available to other applications? How will the digital
twin have to consume data from other applications?
Example: Grinding machine maintenance is tracked in an
ERP system and maintenance activity records are tracked
there. Grinding wheel replacement can be ordered from the
Spare Part management system through an API.
4.5.1 Modeling Considerations
As noted above in “Architecture Considerations,” the digital twin architec-
ture should be able to simulate multiple physical objects. Also, as discussed
in the previous section, each physical object has properties, relationships
and components. Digital twin definition (DTD) is the construct for mod-
eling each physical object completely. Thus, a DTD captures the physical
object properties, relationships, telemetry data, and component informa-
tion and any other data that is needed for simulating the physical object.
A DTD expressed in a machine-processable language can be analyzed for
correctness with the help of tools.
In order to model the properties of a physical object, a good starting
point would be to see if an ontology exists for the physical object. Properties
of various common physical objects (e.g., room, automobile, thing, etc.)
have been defined through ontologies [1]. The ontology will provide vari-
ous properties for the object. For instance, for modeling a machine, a start-
ing point can be the product ontology. The product ontology has various
attributes, such as manufacturer, model number, etc. along with their data
types defined already. Additional data attributes may be added to show
telemetry data, components, etc.
For modeling the digital twin definition (DTD) for a physical object,
various tools are available including lexical data modeling languages, such
as digital twin definition language (DTDL) [2], GraphQL [3], JSON-LD
[4], and OWL [5]. Additionally, graphical languages, such as unified model
language (UML) or entity relationship diagram (ERD), may be used for
modeling the DTD.



--- Página 76 ---

56 Digital Twin Technology
4.6 Digital Twin and IoT
Internet of Things (IoT) technology uses Internet to connect physical
objects to applications such as digital twin that process the data from phys-
ical objects. The following figure shows the end-to-end solution architec-
ture, including the physical object and the digital twin.
A brief explanation of the data flow in Figure 4.2 is as follows.
1. The IoT gateway registers itself with the device management
service, which allows the IoT gateway to send and receive
data.
2. The IoT Gateway connects to physical objects using a “Field
Bus Protocol” such as OPC/UA [6], ModBus [7], ProfiNet [8],
ProfiBus [9], WiFi [10], BlueTooth [11], Ethernet IP [12] etc.
and receives the data from the physical object.
3. The IoT gateway then transmits the data received in step 2
through a secure network communication protocol such as
AMQP [13] or MQTT [14].
4. The data ingestion component receives the data from multi-
ple IoT Gateways. Data ingestion is responsible for ensuring
the quality of the data. For example, any duplicate data is
discarded, and then data are stored in the data lake.
5. The digital twin subscribes to an event that signals the avail-
ability of data. So, when new data arrives in the data lake,
digital twin receives notification and can start processing the
data. A more detailed explanation of various functions in the
digital twin is presented later in this chapter.
6
IoT Device
Management
5
Data 4 Data D T i w gi i t n al 7
1 Ingestion Lake 8
3
IoT 9
Gateway
2 9
IoT Gateway Registration
Command to the physical object
Figure 4.2 Internet of Things and digital twin.



--- Página 77 ---

Digital Twin Solution Architecture 57
6. Digital twin processes the input data, simulates the physical
object’s operation, and provides the status.
7. Digital twin provides the alerts about the physical object.
8. Digital twin exchanges data with an external application as
required.
9. Digital twin sends an advisory warning to the user of the
physical object recommending that a certain action be
taken. Alternatively, depending on the use case, the digital
twin sends a command to the physical object to change the
object’s operation because it may not be possible for a human
operator to act quickly. Thus, data communication between
the physical object and the digital twin is a two-way street
and technology allows digital twin to communicate with the
physical object all the time.
4.7 Digital Twin Solution Architecture
Throughout this chapter, we will describe the solution architecture by
showing various components, inter-connections between components and
explain how data flows across the components.
4.7.1 Conceptual Digital Twin Solution Architecture
Figure 4.3 below shows a conceptual solution architecture for the digital
twin. There are multiple layers in the digital twin architecture and an expla-
nation for each layer is given below.
4.7.2 Infrastructure Platform and IoT Services
At the very bottom of the figure, there is the infrastructure layer, which pro-
vides the compute, network and storage capabilities. Above that are capabil-
ities such as cyber-security and high availability. Above that layer is the IoT
layer which supports registering and managing physical devices/gateways,
and data ingestion to ensure data quality before storing the data in the Data
Lake. Data Lake provides various ways to store data including relational
database, time-series database, flat files, non-SQL document style database.
4.7.3 Digital Twin Data and Process Model
Above the IoT layer is the digital twin data and process model layer.
Components in this layer are described as follows.



--- Página 78 ---

58 Digital Twin Technology
Digital Twin Users Status, Alerts, Predictions, Work Instructions,
Physical Object Simulation, Recommendations
User Interface
Digital Twin
Applications Visualization Enrichment Query Work
Processor Instructions
Interfaces
Knowledge-
Analytics Notification Admin.
Services base
Data and Input Data Process Output Data Digital Twin
Process Model Model(s) Definitions
Physical Reference
Object Data
Users Interfaces
Data IoT Device
Physical IoT Services Ingestion Data Lake Registration
Object
Platform Platform High
Security Admin. Maint. Availability
1. Input Data: Data received from the physical object through
the IoT stack is the input data for the process model.
Physically, data received through IoT resides in the data lake
and should be accessible to digital twin components. The
box called “Input Data” is just a logical representation of this
data. Users of this data include the process model, as well as
digital twin services, such as analytics.
2. Process Model: The process model represents what the
physical object does. The virtual object implemented in soft-
ware will “simulate” the physical object operations. It will
process the input data and produce output that represents
the output of the physical object. Output data will be stored
in the data store, where it will be available to services such as
visualization, analytics, etc. The digital twin should be able
to support multiple physical objects, e.g., each component
in a machine can each have a different process model. See
Figure 4.4 below for an example of a process model in which
the states of a grinding machine are modeled. Each state is
shown within the circle and input data is used to determine
what the next state should be. In this example, the crite-
rion for determining the state is the grinding wheel speed
in RPM. In the example below, the sensor in the grinding
machine sends the grinding wheel speed as 510.
secafretnI
Digital
Twin
Infra-
structure
Platform
Compute Network Storage
)S(noitacilppA
Figure 4.3 Digital twin solution architecture.



--- Página 79 ---

Digital Twin Solution Architecture 59
Out of
Idle
Service
State update,
Data from 0 < RPM < 500
Calculated
Physical Object
values
Input Data RPM = 510 State = Grinding, Output Data
R U a p m
R
p
PM
-
>
500 Grindin
R
g
P M <
500 R D a o m w p n - Temp = 270
Legend:
RPM = 0 State Transition
during an
Process Model Exception
Figure 4.4 Process model example.
Process Model may also include “Virtual Sensor” capabil-
ity. As mentioned earlier in the section entitled “Calculated
data”, in the Process Model for the grinding machine, the
temperature of the grinding wheel can be calculated based
on the grinding wheel speed. So even though there is no
temperature sensor, the “Virtual Temperature Sensor” will
calculate the temperature value and will make it available for
consumption. In the above figure, based on the speed of 510
RPM, the virtual sensor calculates the temperature as 270°C.
3. Output Data: Various types of data will be generated by the
digital twin, such as:
1. Object Status updates
2. Virtual Sensor outputs as explained earlier
3. Outputs from Machine Learning (ML) models
4. Alert data containing the reason for the alert and a
timestamp.
4. Digital Twin Definition Data: The digital twin definition
schema describes a specific instance of the digital twin.
The schema will contain a set of properties, operations per-
formed and relationships to other digital twins.
5. Reference Data: Reference data will not be updated very
often. It is stored for use by several services and applications.
1. Context model: A model showing the relationship of the
object to other objects.
2. Rules data: A set of rules that will help in determining the
next set of actions in the event certain conditions regard-
ing the physical object.



--- Página 80 ---

60 Digital Twin Technology
3. 3-D Drawing(s) specification: A 3-D Drawing for the
physical object will serve as the supporting model, as the
base for animation and simulation tasks. It will give addi-
tional insight into the operation of the physical object.
6. External Interfaces: As shown in Figure 4.3, the digital twin
will inter-operate with external applications such as ERP sys-
tems, Maintenance Management, Production Scheduling,
etc. The digital twin will also be able to work with other dig-
ital twins through well-defined interfaces.
4.7.4 Digital Twin Services
Regardless of the type of object that is being modeled, there is a set of ser-
vices that will be commonly required by digital twin applications. These
services are briefly described as follows.
1. Analytics: This service includes running pre-determined
Machine Learning (ML) models such as forecasting or
anomaly detection on the data received.
2. Notifications: If the outcome of analytics needs attention,
the notification service sends an alert to a pre-determined
distribution list through mechanisms such as e-mail, SMS
text message, etc.
3. Knowledgebase: Through a set of rules, Knowledgebase
determines the steps required to take when a specific event
happens. For example, based on the forecasting ML model
output, it is predicted that the diameter of the grinding wheel
will dip below the threshold in 24 hours. The Knowledgebase
will recommend the next steps to take in this situation. The
Knowledgebase may also execute a step in which a com-
mand is sent to the physical object. For example, if tempera-
ture of the grinding wheel exceeds a threshold, the speed at
which the grinding wheel is spinning is dropped until the
temperature is within the operating range.
Knowledgebase is an evolving service because as new oper-
ational situations are discovered, new rules will be added, or
existing rules will be updated.
4. Administration: The administration service allows for creat-
ing new digital twin instances based on the digital twin defi-
nition (DTD), starting, stopping and deleting the operation
of each newly created digital twin.



--- Página 81 ---

Digital Twin Solution Architecture 61
4.7.5 Digital Twin Applications
Digital twin applications use underlying services and databases.
Applications interface with the digital twin users through a user inter-
face. Applications may also interface with other systems through APIs.
Examples of possible applications are described as follows.
1. Visualization: Visualization will enable the user gain insight
into the current status as well as any pending alerts. The vir-
tualization application will query from the input data, out-
put data, and reference data stores and make it available to
the user through the user interface.
2. Enrichment: An Enrichment application is like Visualization
in terms of retrieving data from underlying services and
databases with the addition of fetching data or sending data
to external systems. For example, if the status of the grinding
machine is Out of Service, the Enrichment application will
query the external system used by Maintenance engineers.
Through the query, any open maintenance tickets will be
shown.
3. Query Processor: A Query Processor application will allow
a citizen user to build a query through a user interface and
then it will direct the query to an appropriate data source
such as the Generated data to obtain the results and display
them. For example, the user will be able to build a query
such as “What is the average Remaining Useful Life (RUL)
for the grinding wheel on all the grinding machines in the
plant?”
4. Work Instructions: A Work Instruction application can be
constructed based on the 3-D drawing as the reference infor-
mation. Augmented Reality (AR) technology is ideal for such
applications because digital data such as work instructions
are super-imposed over the image of the physical object.
Work Instruction applications will typically be used on a
mobile device or a hands-free device such as smart glasses.
4.7.6 Sample Basic Data Flow through Digital Twin
Figure 4.5 below shows a sample data flow through digital twin components.
1. When an administrator user wants to create a digital twin
instance physical object, they use the application called



--- Página 82 ---

62 Digital Twin Technology
Digital Twin Users Status, Alerts, Predictions, Work Instructions,
1 Physical Object Simulation, Recommendations
User Interface
Digital Twin
Query Work
Applications 2 Visualization Enrichment Processor Instructions
Interfaces
Knowledge-
Analytics Notification Admin.
Services 10 11 12 base 3
D Pr a o t c a e a s n s d 7 Input Data 8 M Pr o o d c e e l s (s s ) Output Data 9 D D i e g fi it n a i l t T io w n i s n
Model Reference
Physical Object Data
Users Interfaces
Data IoT Device
Physical IoT Services Ingestion Data Lake Registration Object 4
13 Infra- Platform Platform High
Security
structure Admin. Maint. Availability
Platform
Compute Network Storage
Visualization. User will enter required properties, such as
digital twin unique Identifier, location, etc. through a user
interface.
2. Visualization will then invoke the administration service
API to create a digital twin definition.
3. Administration service will create a digital twin definition.
As mentioned earlier, the definition tracks the properties
such as identifier, location, etc. as well as the relationships.
4. Data generated by the physical object is sent by the IoT
Gateway and is received in the Data Ingestion layer.
5. Data Ingestion checks data quality. Erroneous, duplicate
data is discarded.
6. All valid Data is then stored in the Data Lake. Data is stored
in appropriate stores, i.e., relational, flat files, time-series or
non-SQL database.
7. When data is available in the Data Lake, an event is gen-
erated to signal that Input data is available for the Process
Model.
8. Process Model for the object runs and simulates the opera-
tion of the physical object. Based on the value of the input
data received, the state of the object is updated. If a Virtual
Sensor is available, it will calculate values based on input
data. All calculated values, status, etc. are stored as “Output
Data”.
secafretnI
)S(noitacilppA
Digital
Twin
5 6 9
Figure 4.5 Basic data flow through the digital twin.



--- Página 83 ---

Digital Twin Solution Architecture 63
9. When data is stored in the Output data, an event will be cre-
ated to start the analysis of incoming data. Output Data may
also be used for analytics.
10. The Analytics service contains various ML models such as
forecasting or anomaly detection. ML models will retrieve
datasets from both Input data and Output data. The ML
models will store results of analytics in Output data.
4.7.7 Sample Data Flow for Exception Handling
The steps outlined may run only in the event of an exceptional situation
and may not represent the normal data flow.
11. If the ML model detects an outcome that needs further
action, an event will be generated for the notification service
to act on. For example, in case of a grinding machine sce-
nario, the ML model detects that the thickness of the grind-
ing wheel will fall below a threshold in the next 24 hours and
the machine will come to a complete stop unless the grind-
ing wheel is replaced. In this case, the notification service
will send an alert to the user.
12. Based on the event generated based by the ML model, the
Knowledgebase service can programmatically suggest the
next set of steps. The Knowledgebase service will retrieve
the rules which are part of the reference database. Any
recommendation will be entered in the Output data. For
instance, in case of the grinding machine, if the ML model
predicts that in the next 24 hours the grinding wheel thick-
ness will fall below the threshold, the rule may be to order
another wheel from the Spare Part management system,
after confirming that the grinding wheel has already gone
through the required number of dressing cycles.
13. On a case-by-case basis, the Knowledgebase will send a
command to the physical object through the IoT Gateway,
to change the configuration and hence the operation of the
physical object.
4.7.8 Sample Data Flow through Digital Twin Applications
For understanding the data flows through digital twin applications, please
refer to Figure 4.6 below.



--- Página 84 ---

64 Digital Twin Technology
Digital Twin Users Status, Alerts, Predictions, Work Instructions,
1 Physical Object Simulation, Recommendations
Digital Twin User Interface
Query Work
Applications Visualization Enrichment Processor Instructions
3 4 5 2
Interfaces
Knowledge-
Analytics Notification Admin.
Services base
Data and Input Data Process Output Data Digital Twin
Process Model Model(s) Definitions
Reference
Physical Object Data
Users Interfaces
Data IoT Device
Physical IoT Services Ingestion Data Lake Registration
Object
Infra- Platform Platform High
structure Security Admin. Maint. Availability
Platform
Compute Network Storage
1. User has the Work Instruction App installed on a mobile
phone they are carrying. The user starts the App and looks
at a marker posted on an object such as a machine.
2. Based on the marker the App knows that the user wants to
see the instructions for how to replace a specific part in the
object.
The App shows a 3-D view of the object and asks the user to
follow step 1 in the Work Instruction. After the user provides
a confirmation that step 1 is complete, the App shows what
to do for the next step. In this way, the entire part replace-
ment is completed.
3. Visualization: From the Visualization user interface, the user
selects a menu to display the status.
The Visualization applications queries the Output data table
and determines the current status as well as any actual values
and calculated values.
Example: In case of the grinding machine, the Visualization
application queries the Output data and finds out that the
latest grinding wheel speed value is 510 RPM and tem-
perature is 270°C. Visualization passes on the above-
mentioned values to the User Interface which in turn shows
the above-mentioned values in a visual form.
4. Enrichment: The basic flow will be very similar to the
above-mentioned data flow for Visualization. The only
secafretnI
)S(noitacilppA
Digital
Twin
Figure 4.6 Data flow through digital twin applications.



--- Página 85 ---

Digital Twin Solution Architecture 65
difference will be that the Enrichment application will use
the API for an external system to get additional data.
Example: Enrichment application will retrieve latest status
value from the output data store. But additionally, it will use
an API to get data about open maintenance tickets from the
maintenance management system.
5. Query Processor: The Query Processor shows the list of
active digital twins from the digital twin definitions table.
The user selects a specific digital twin or all the available dig-
ital twins. The query processor then guides the user to make
a query, e.g., “List all grinding machines which are currently
in out-of-service state.”
The query processor then queries the output data store and responds to
the user with the response.
4.7.9 Development Considerations
The following table is not a recommendation, but it will give an idea about
the possible choices.
Components Development choices
1 Applications: Visualization, Java, Python, C# or C++
Enrichment, Query
Processor
2 Work Instruction Application Augmented Reality [15] will be ideal
for this use case. Augmented
Reality Application Studio.
3 Services: Notifications, Java, Python, C#, C++
Administration
4 Service: Analytics (ML Python ML libraries for time-
Models) series analysis e.g., NumPy [16],
TensorFlow [17]
5 Service: Knowledgebase Rule base, developed with a Rules
Engine
6 Process Model A state machine may be a good
design model, implemented in
Java, Python, C# or C++.



--- Página 86 ---

66 Digital Twin Technology
4.8 Database Considerations
The following data stores will be designed and used by the digital twin.
Obviously, the exact schema for the items will depend upon the object for
which the digital twin will be implemented.
Data store Data content Example Data store type
1 Input data Object state Grinding operation Relational
changes, i.e., starts database
events
Data with object Grinding wheel Relational
properties and diameter and database
values sent torque are sent
periodically after each cycle
Streaming data, i.e., Electrical current Time-series
object property and voltage database
values sent values
continuously
Bulk data Vibration signal Sequential file
2 Output data Alerts Grinding wheel Relational
diameter below database
threshold
Calculated object Grinding wheel Relational
property values temperature database
Predicted or Remaining useful Relational
calculated object life database
property values
Recommendations Actionable Relational
recommendation database
for user
3 Digital Twin Digital Twin DTD instances Non-SQL
Definitions Definitions as created by database
(DTDs) (DTDs) administration
(Continued)



--- Página 87 ---

Digital Twin Solution Architecture 67
(Continued)
4 Reference Context diagram Grinding machine Relational
data showing entities in the enterprise database
and relationships
Rules If predicted Relational
grinding database
machine diameter
is < 25 mm then
recommend user
to order a spare
grinding wheel
3-D Drawing Grinding machine File(s) in a
and grinding format
wheel drawing readable by
augmented
reality studio.
Bill of Materials All the parts of Relational
the grinding database
machine
Production Production plan Relational
planning that will be used database
schedule by the grinding
machine
4.9 Messaging
In the solution architecture we have described components such as ser-
vices, applications, data stores and process model. The following table
describes in detail how each digital twin component interacts with other
components. Both synchronous and asynchronous interactions should be
supported. Synchronous interactions will be through calling well-defined
APIs. Asynchronous interactions will be supported through messaging over
a message bus. Messaging could be point-to-point or publish-subscribe.
The following table shows a set of possible publish-subscribe interactions.



--- Página 88 ---

68 Digital Twin Technology
User Component Subscribes
Component interface type to Publishes
1 Process Not required Multi-threaded Input Data Object State
Model server with Available Changes,
one thread event Alerts
for each
instance of
Digital Twin
Definition
(DTD)
2 Analytics Not required Service Input Data Alerts
(ML modeled Available
Models) as an Event event
Handler
3 Knolwedge- Not required Service Alerts Recommen-
base modeled dations
as an Event
Handler
4 Notification Not required Continuously Alerts Sends alerts
service running by email
service
5 Adminis- Yes Continuously Not Not
tration running required required
service
6 Visualization Yes Application Notification Displays
alerts
7 Enrichment Yes Application Not Not
required required
8 Query Yes Application Not Not
Processor required required
Numerous choices possible for a message bus include JMS [18], Kafka [19] and
ZeroMQ [20].



--- Página 89 ---

Digital Twin Solution Architecture 69
4.10 Interfaces
The following table lists the main APIs that the digital twin will support.
APIs for data stores allow separation between the logical and physical
representations of data. The API users see only the logical representation.
Database implementers are free to decide the physical modeling of the data
and will be able to change it, as needed, without requiring the API users,
i.e., application and service developers to change their code. APIs can be
used to integrate a digital twin with an external enterprise application or
another digital twin.
API Explanation Supported by Used by
1 Input Data Select and read Data Lake Process Model,
API data from the Visualization,
Input Data Query
Store Processor
2 Output Data Select and read Digital Twin Visualization,
API data from the Output Data Enrichment
Output Data Store applications
store
3 Reference Retrieve from Reference Data Administration,
Data API the Reference Store Process
Data store Model
4 External Get data External Enrichment,
Application from an Applications Other
API application applications
(as required)
5 External Set data in Digital Twin Setting data into
Application Digital Twin the Digital
API from another Twin, e.g.,
application Production
Planning
Schedule



--- Página 90 ---

70 Digital Twin Technology
REST style APIs with get and set operations are preferred. For modeling
and documenting, various tools are available, such as Swagger [21] and
PostMan [22].
4.11 User Experience
The digital twin user experience functionality will consist of both client
and server-side components. The user facing client-side logic will execute
in a Web Browser or on a mobile application. Client-side functionality
will include user authentication, user authorization, as well as providing a
menu of various possible features, such as administration, visualization of
status, simulation, alerts, etc.
On the server-side, the functionality will include using the API for the
appropriate service or application. For example, if the administrator user wants
to create a new digital twin, the user interface function on the server side will
use the administration service API to create a new digital twin definition.
Applications, such as visualization and enhancement, will have server-
side components that will respond to user inputs.
For client-side browser-based implementation, use of Angular-JS [23] may
be worth considering. For client-side applications running on mobile appli-
cations, consider using the software development kit (SDK) recommended
for the mobile device operating system. Applications using augmented real-
ity (AR) technology should run on mobile devices including smart glasses.
Typically, smart glasses run the same operating system that mobile devices
do. Using the AR application development studio, it should be possible to
generate an application that runs on both mobile devices and smart glasses.
4.12 Cyber Security
As shown in the digital twin solution architecture diagram, data security
must be provided for data in motion as well as data at rest. Access to the
digital twin should be made available only to registered users and applica-
tions. Various security considerations are as follows.
• Securing data coming from physical objects is handled by
the IoT gateway. Communication with the physical object
should meet cyber security standards through public and
private key encryption.



--- Página 91 ---

Digital Twin Solution Architecture 71
• IoT device registration service will ensure that only authen-
ticated physical objects will be sending data.
• Digital twin users should be authenticated against the enter-
prise level directory of usernames and passwords.
• Role-based access control (RBAC) must be implemented,
i.e., some users may have only read-access, some may have
read-write and some will have administrator level access.
Only administrators should be allowed to create or delete
new digital twin instances.
• External applications, which want to get data from the
digital twin or send data to the digital twin, must be regis-
tered in the enterprise level directory and should be given
credentials.
• Data exchanged with the external application should comply
with cyber-security standards through public and private
key encryption.
4.13 Use Case Coverage
In the table below, we verify that the use cases we reviewed earlier are ful-
filled by the digital twin services and applications.
Use case Use Digital twin
functionality cases component Explanation
1 Visualization of 1, 2, 3, Query User interface will
object status 9, 15 processor, send a query.
including user interface Query processor will
alerts send queries to the
appropriate data
stores, collect the
response and return
to user interface.
2 Show calculated 14 Virtual sensor Virtual sensor will
(not actual) calculate values
values of based on a model
specified of how the physical
properties object operates.
(Continued)



--- Página 92 ---

72 Digital Twin Technology
(Continued)
3 Enriched data, 8 User interface, User interface and
i.e., show all query query processor are
maintenance processor, described earlier.
issues special Special application
resolved, application will be written to get
related to the maintenance ticket
current issue/ data.
status.
4 Predict 7 ML model for Predict values of
remaining forecasting, certain variables
useful life user interface based on model
5 Automatic 6, 11, ML model for ML model will be
recommen- 12 anomaly used to detect
dation and detection, anomalies. Generate
notification generate recommendations,
generation recommen- which is a custom
dations, application, will be
rule base, used decide what
generate recommendation
notifications, to make based
orchestrator on a Rule Base.
Recommendations
will be sent as
notifications.
Through the
orchestrator service,
multiple services
will be invoked as
required.
6 Work 5, 10, Custom A custom AR
instructions 13 augmented application will be
for operating reality (AR) created using AR
and for application studio tool.
repairing a
component
(Continued)



--- Página 93 ---

Digital Twin Solution Architecture 73
(Continued)
7 Comparison of 4 Custom Custom application
actual against application will compare
planned actual performance
performance of the object
against expected
performance.
8 Write ad-hoc 16 Custom Custom application
applications application will access data
produced by the
digital twin.
9 Order Spare 17 Custom Custom application
part application will use the spare
part management
system API to place
an order for the
spare part.
10 Receive 18 API to receive Production planning
production planning application will use
planning schedule the digital twin API
schedule data. to set the planning
schedule.
4.14 Future Direction and Trends
The digital twin value proposition is quite strong across many industry
verticals such as manufacturing, healthcare services and real-estate man-
agement to name a few.
After building a digital twin, it will be possible to integrate it with
other digital twins, thus forming a digital twin eco-system. When digital
twins from different organizations are integrated, the digital thread will
be formed. For example, in manufacturing, the digital twin that virtual-
izes product design can integrate with the digital twin for a machine that
produces the product, which can further integrate with the digital twin
that simulates the quality process and the shipping process. An end-to-end



--- Página 94 ---

74 Digital Twin Technology
digital thread built by linking digital twins will provide actionable insight
into the operation of the entire supply chain.
In the future, as the digital thread gets implemented between various
organizations, blockchain technology may be used to implement a dis-
tributed ledger. Depending on the business requirements, the digital twin
will be integrated with a blockchain. As an example, suppose the grinding
machine digital twin detects that the grinding wheel needs to be ordered
from a 3rd party supplier. In that case, the digital twin will place an order
with the supplier through a blockchain API.
Digital twin consortium [24] will accelerate the formation of standards
and will thereby promote interoperability between digital twins. Glossary
of digital twin [25] will be helpful in better understanding of the digital
twin terminology and will help in increasing the speed of development.
4.15 Conclusion
Since there are many technology disciplines at work in the digital twin,
including IoT, artificial intelligence and machine learning, simulation, aug-
mented reality, messaging and cyber-security, architecting a digital twin
could be a daunting task. Many papers have been written to describe the
components of a digital twin. This work shows a systematic, comprehen-
sive and step-by-step approach to design the digital twin solution architec-
ture for a physical object.
The foundational digital twin components are process model, analyt-
ics, visualization, and notification. Depending on the business case, it may
be useful to create work instruction applications. Knowledge base and the
capability to send commands to the physical object through the IoT gate-
way can be added in a later phase.
After implementing the digital twin, it will be essential to continuously
refine it so that it tracks the physical object well. For example, if there is a
difference between the value calculated by the digital twin and the actual
value, that difference will have to be minimized by tweaking the model
implementing within the digital twin.
References
1. Ontologies for various objects, https://schema.org/docs/documents.html.
2. Digital Twin Definition Language, https://github.com/Azure/opendigitaltwins-
dtdl/blob/master/DTDL/v2/dtdlv2.md#digital-twins-definition-language,
2020.



--- Página 95 ---

Digital Twin Solution Architecture 75
3. GraphQL, https://graphql.org/learn/schema/, 2015.
4. JSON for Linking Data (JSON-LD), https://json-ld.org/, 2010.
5. Web Ontology Language (OWL), https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_
Ontology_Language, 2009.
6. OPC/UA, https://opcfoundation.org/about/opc-technologies/opc-ua/, 2006.
7. ModBus protocol, https://modbus.org/, 2005.
8. ProfiNet protocol, https://us.profinet.com/technology/profinet/, 2003.
9. ProfiBus protocol, https://www.profibus.com/, 2003.
10. WiFi protocol, https://www.wi-fi.org, 2000.
11. BlueTooth protocol, https://www.bluetooth.com, 1998.
12. Ethernet IP protocol, https://www.odva.org/technology-standards/key-
technologies/ethernet-ip/, 2001.
13. AMQP protocol, https://www.amqp.org/resources/specifications, 2011.
14. MQTT protocol, https://mqtt.org/mqtt-specification/, 1999.
15. Azuma, R., Overview of Augmented Reality. ACM SIGGRAPH 2004 Course
Notes, https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/1103900.1103926, 2005.
16. NumPy Library. https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/, 2015.
17. TensorFlow Library, https://www.tensorflow.org/learn, 2015.
18. Java Messaging Library, https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/6/tutorial/doc/
bncdq.html, 2013.
19. Kafka, https://kafka.apache.org/intro, 2011.
20. ZeroMQ, https://zeromq.org/languages/python/, 2011.
21. Swagger, https://swagger.io/, 2011.
22. PostMan, https://www.postman.com/, 2014.
23. AngularJS. https://angularjs.org/, 2010.
24. Digital Twin Consortium, https://www.digitaltwinconsortium.org/, 2021.
25. Glossary of Digital Twins, https://www.digitaltwinconsortium.org/glossary/
index.htm#digital-twin-applications, 2021.
26. Enders, M.R. and Hoßbach, N., Dimensions of Digital Twin Applications-A
Literature Review Completed Research, in: Technical report, 2019.
27. Tao, F., Zhang, H., Liu, A., Nee, A.Y., Digital twin in industry: State-of-the-
art. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf., 15, 2405–2415, 2019.
28. Kritzinger, W., Karner, M., Traar, G., Henjes, J., Sihn, W., Digital twin in man-
ufacturing: A categorical literature review and classification, in: IFAC-Papers
online, vol. 51, pp. 1016–1022, 2018.
29. Negri, E., Fumagalli, L., Macchi, M., A review of the roles of digital twin in
CPS-based production systems. Proc. Manuf., 11, 939–948, 2017.
30. Ríos, J., Hernández, J.C., Oliva, M., Mas, F., Product avatar as digital counter-
part of a physical individual product: Literature review and implications in
an aircraft. Adv. Transdiscipl. Eng., 2, 657–666, 2015.
31. Grieves, M. and Vickers, J., Digital twin: Mitigating unpredictable, unde-
sirable emergent behavior in complex systems, in: Trans-Disciplinary
Perspectives on System Complexity, F.-J. Kahlen, S. Flumerfelt, and A. Alves,
(eds.), p. 85–114, Springer, Switzerland, 2016.



--- Página 96 ---

76 Digital Twin Technology
32. Rathore, M., Shah, S., Shukla, D., Bentafat, E., Bakiras, S., The role of AI,
machine learning, and big data in digital twinning: A systematic literature
review, challenges, and opportunities, in: IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp. 32030–
32052, 2021.
33. Ghita, M. and Siham, B., Digital twin development architectures and deploy-
ment technologies: Moroccan use case. (IJACSA) Int. J. Adv. Comput. Sci.
Appl., 11, 2, p. 468–478, 2020.
34. Munoz, P., Troya J., Vallecillo, A., Using UML and OCL models to real-
ize high-level digital twins, in: 2021 ACM/IEEE International Conference on
Model Driven Engineering Languages and Systems Companion (MODELS-C),
pp. 212–220, Fukuoka, Japan, 2021.
35. Alam, K.M. and El Saddik, A., C2PS: A digital twin architecture reference
model for the cloud-based cyber-physical systems, in: IEEE Access, vol. 5,
pp. 2050–2062, 2017.
36. Grieves, M., Virtually intelligent product systems: Digital and physical twins,
in complex systems engineering: Theory and practice, S. Flumerfelt, et al.
(eds.), American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. p. 175-200, 2019.
37. Hasan, H.R., Salah, K., Jayraman, R., Omar, M., Yaqoob, I., Pesic, S., Taylor,
T., Boscovic, D., A blockchain-based approach for the creation of digital
twins, in: IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 34113–34126, 2020.


