--- Página 21 ---

1
Overview of Digital Twin
Manisha Vohra
Independent Researcher, India
*
Abstract
Digital twin is a technology which is opening doors to various possibilities in
different sectors which will shall prove to be very fruitful. Digital twin basically
means a replicated digital model of any device or product. It has great abilities
which can benefit various sectors when applied in those sectors. This technology
is growing with great pace. It has some really amazing and useful advantages. This
chapter is all about the basics of digital twin which includes understanding what it
is, discussion regarding the beginning of this technology, its working, features, etc.
In this chapter an entire overview of digital twin is provided.
Keywords: Digital twin, digital twin technology, digital model, technology,
mirror worlds, virtual environment, National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (NASA)
1.1 A Simplistic Introduction to Digital Twin
Digital twin, a technology named in two words is a technology with great
abilities. It is a technology which is very powerful. It is powerful enough to
replicate real world devices, products and processes virtually. Digital twin
works in a virtual environment. Digital twin in simple words is a virtual
representation of real world devices, products or process. This is one basic
way of how digital twin can be defined. Another basic and brief defini-
tion and explanation of what is digital twin will be stated further on in the
chapter.
Digital twin can run simulations, it can predict the possible errors which
could turn up or occur in a device, product or process.
Email: manishavohra94@gmail.com
*
Manisha Vohra (ed.) Digital Twin Technology: Fundamentals and Applications, (1–18) © 2023
Scrivener Publishing LLC
1



--- Página 22 ---

2 Digital Twin Technology
In today’s world, virtual environment plays an important role in var-
ious sectors. For example, in healthcare sector, use of telemedicine. In
use of telemedicine option, consultation via video conferencing is done
in a virtual environment. In education sector, curriculum classes are also
now adays carried out in a virtual environment via video conferencing.
Likewise, in different sectors, virtual environment is playing an important
role and is being very helpful.
Digital twin is also a technology which works in a virtual environment. Its
utilization in different sectors like global industry, healthcare, engineering,
etc. can be the key to a whole lot of advantages and benefits for those sectors.
Digital twin does not remain static in nature. It changes in accordance to
the changes in the real object it is replicating. The input of the real-time data
it can receive from the original object which it is replicating is truly helpful.
It will update itself in accordance with changes in the object. Whenever
there is any change in the original object, that particular change will occur
in the digital twin model as well. This in itself is a huge plus point.
To bring some innovation in any new product or device, one might try
to experiment while working on it. Even while working on an existing
product, for coming up with a new version of it as there are chances for
its improvement and betterment, one might experiment, alter and bring
changes to it in this case as well. Even after careful intervention during
the attempt of trying to experiment with all necessary measures and pre-
cautions taken be it in a new product’s case or existing one, there can be
multiple scenarios as resultants.
This move of trying to experiment could either go right, benefitting the
product hugely or could have some adverse effects which could damage
or hamper the product early or in the later stages of the product lifecycle.
Well, in the case, that the experiment is successful then there’s no prob-
lem but if something turns out wrong then it could damage or hamper the
product in the early or later stages of the product lifecycle as mentioned
above. Here, one needs to be having something like a technology which
could in advance inform regarding the issues, hurdles that the product
could probably face in any stage of its lifecycle, thus preventing it from
occurrence in reality. For such instances and situations, digital twin could
be the best fit option.
It can provide prediction in advance on what issues could arise in a
product. So before they come in reality they can be predicted by using dig-
ital twin. Through this kind of prediction, digital twin can help to prevent
any issues or hurdles from arising and occurring not just in a product but
be it a system, process, etc. Hence, it can be rightly told that digital twin has
the capability to keep problems at bay.



--- Página 23 ---

Overview of Digital Twin 3
The concept of digital twin is decades old, despite this fact, its real
impact has only come into being in recent years [7]. Currently, industry
4.0 is a popular term to describe the imminent changes of the industry
landscape, particularly in the production and manufacturing industry of
the developed world [13]. The design of a manufacturing system is not
simple. It is a complex and critical activity [4].
Digital twin technology is nowadays being developed and commercial-
ized to optimize several manufacturing processes [2]. Digital twin is now
getting recognition of being a part of industry 4.0 roadmap [5]. A manu-
facturing digital twin offers a great opportunity. It offers the opportunity
to simulate and optimize the production system [8]. The growing adoption
of cyber-physical system (CPS), internet of things (IoT), big data analytics,
and cloud computing in manufacturing sector has paved the way for low
cost and systematic implementation of digital twin [11].
There are different aspects driving the future of manufacturing and one
of those is digital twin [19]. It is receiving a great deal of interest from man-
ufacturers who make advanced products that have all the characteristics
of complex systems. However, the success of the digital twin model will
depend on a factor which is value, the value it creates for both the manu-
facturers and the users of their products [3]. A concept for the composi-
tion of a database and guidelines proposal for the implementation of the
digital twin in production systems in small and medium-sized enterprises
is presented by the authors in paper [17]. Digital twin can truly impact
manufacturing greatly.
It can also play a major role in overall cost savings in the entire manu-
facturing budget of an object, product, system, etc. as the manufacturing
budget mostly always has provision for some issues. When manufactur-
ing budget is planned, at that time mostly always a provision is kept for
remanufacturing of the some of the objects or products, etc. which might
be required to be remanufactured due to certain issues as well there is pro-
vision in the budget in case of wastage occurring during manufacturing
process due to some error. When errors and issues can be prevented prior
to their arrival in reality, it will result in the overall cost saving in the entire
manufacturing cost of an object, product or system, etc. which is being
manufactured. Also, downtime can be prevented and predictive mainte-
nance can be carried out using digital twin. Not just cost savings will hap-
pen due then to digital twin but also it will help in meeting deadlines fixed
for manufacturing of objects or products.
Whenever due to any faults if remanufacturing is required then it will
not only increase the overall cost involved in manufacturing but additional
time will also be required in remanufacturing. If digital twin can prevent



--- Página 24 ---

4 Digital Twin Technology
issues, errors, downtime and also predictive maintenance can be carried
out digital twin then then manufacturing can be completed on time and it
can thus meet its allotted deadline without requiring additional time.
One of the greatest plus points of this technology is that, it can present
a replicate of the original product, system, etc. in a digital format. Such is
the functionality of digital twin. Hence, digital twin which is created, be it
of anything, like product, system, etc. will be in digital form and it can be
viewed and from any remote location. Digital twin allows to monitor the
original device, product, etc.
There is no compulsion or restriction of being present in person in front
of the device or product to view or monitor it. This point about the digital
twin makes it not only just advantageous or beneficial but also simplifies
the work of the ones who will be working with this technology as and when
required.
Nowadays many things have gone digital and are carried out online like
work, study, etc. Any technology which allows remote monitoring of work
is a plus point of that particular technology and it is highly beneficial for
the users of that technology.
Along with various other important and key factors which paved way
for development and introduction of digital twin technology, directly or
indirectly the widespread and accessibility of digitalization has also been
important for digital twin.
Had digitalization not been much developed, wide spread and acces-
sible, it would affect the progress of digital twin technology during its
attempt in reaching out to different sectors quickly. The widespread and
accessibility of digitalization has also thus been indirectly important for
digital twin technology.
To provide digital services in a product service system is it necessary
to understand few things such as service ecosystem, service platform and
value co-creation [15]. There is an increasing interest in adapting digital
twin to get autonomous maintenance [9]. Digital twins are expected to
enrich the existent asset information system [20]. Digital twin is now a
salient and emerging trend in many applications which includes the con-
struction sector as well. The construction sector hosts various applications
for digital twin use [1, 18]. Seen as a basis of digital twin is linking of sensor
data with city model [14]. A digital twin city can simulate designs based on
the digital model similar to a real city [12].
The combination of the digital twins with trusted data sharing technol-
ogies (such as blockchain) could pave way to a new wave in supply chain
studies [22]. Integrated digital twin and blockchain framework makes all
data transactions traceable is what was found by authors in paper [10].



--- Página 25 ---

Overview of Digital Twin 5
Digital twin can be helpful in different sector’s various applications, for
example, the digital twin can be helpful in manufacturing context. As per
traditional definition, manufacturing is defined as a process which turns
materials that are raw, into physical products [16]. Digital twin may be
applied with great success in manufacturing contexts for gaining benefits
in terms of optimization, maintenance and operations monitoring [6]. In
different important sectors such as healthcare, digital twin can be of great
help. The list of some different sectors where digital twin can be used is
discussed later on in the chapter. While there has been a recent growth of
interest in the digital twin, a variety of definitions employed across indus-
try and academia remain [21].
Digital twin is a beneficial technology with great features. Its features
are stated further on it the chapter. Overall, digital twin technology can
be considered as a technology which will evolve and currently also it is
evolving.
Digital twin is having great potential. With the help of its functionality,
capabilities and advantages, it can ease out many difficulties of different
sectors when applied for usage. Having briefly introduced digital twin, the
basic definition and explanation of what is digital twin is stated below.
1.2 Basic Definition and Explanation of What
is Digital Twin
Another basic definition of digital twin is as follows. Digital twin can be
defined as a digital representation of any real world product, system or pro-
cess. It replicates the original product, system or process in digital form. It
lays out digital representation of any real world product, system or process.
Digital twin can showcase changes of the original product, system, etc.
because it is linked or connected with it and receives real-time data. Such
is the functionality and capability of digital twin. Digital twin accounts and
includes the details as well of whatever it is replicating. Say for example a
product’s digital twin is being created. The digital twin will also have the
different details that the original product consists of. It also replicates the
different details of the original product. The behavior of the product is rep-
licated by the digital twin as well.
In the year 2002, Dr. Michael Grieves had spoken about digital twin at
a conference. In fact, he had given a presentation at this conference which
was held at Michigan University and presented the digital twin concept but
it was presented as “Conceptual Ideal for PLM”. At that time, digital twin
had not received its name as digital twin. However, the concept presented



--- Página 26 ---

6 Digital Twin Technology
as “Conceptual Ideal for PLM” was consisting of all elements of digital.
These elements are: real space, virtual space, the link for data flow from real
space to virtual space, the link for information flow from virtual space to
real space and virtual sub-spaces [23].
Back then in 2002, Dr. Michael Grieves was the one who had publicly
introduced digital twin. When the history of digital twin is discussed, one
will notice that this particular instance was a significant step towards the
evolution of digital twin. This instance is well described further on in the
chapter while discussing the history of digital twin.
There are two types of digital twin. They are Digital Twin Prototype
(DTP) and Digital Twin Instance (DTI).
• Digital Twin Prototype (DTP): This type of Digital Twin
describes the prototypical physical artifact.
• Digital Twin Instance (DTI): This type of Digital Twin
describes a specific corresponding physical product that an
individual Digital Twin remains linked to throughout the
life of that physical product.
Digital Twins are operated on in a Digital Twin Environment (DTE).
Below is the definition of DTE.
• Digital Twin Environment (DTE): This is an integrated,
multi-domain physics application space for operating on
Digital Twins for a variety of purposes that would include:
• Predictive
• Interrogative
Predictive: Here the digital twin would be used for predicting purpose.
It will predict the future behavior as well as performance of the physical
product [23].
Interrogative: This would apply to DTI’s. Digital Twin Instances could be
interrogated for the current and past histories [23].
DTPs should exist for all sophisticated manufactured products, while
DTIs exist only for products where it is important to have information
about that product throughout its life. Airplanes, rockets, manufacturing
floor equipment, and even automobiles have or will have DTIs. Paper clips
will not.
Digital Twin Aggregate (DTA) – this type of Digital Twin is the aggre-
gation of all the DTIs [3].
Talking about the digital twin model throughout the lifecycle, the ref-
erence to PLM made in 2002 conference indicated that this particular



--- Página 27 ---

Overview of Digital Twin 7
conceptual model was intended and is still currently intended to be a non-
static model which means the model was and is intended to be dynamic
one such that it changes throughout the system’s lifecycle. Initially at the
beginning period of its lifecycle, the system emerges virtually, after that it
in the production phase, it takes physical form, then it continues through
its operational life and eventually is retired and disposed of [23].
Digital twin has a great capability that it can give an estimate or predict
the hurdles and complications that could be encountered in the product or
system prior to them turning up in reality. One can infer through this what
measures need to be taken to avoid any problems and losses.
1.3 The History of Digital Twin
When it comes to the history of digital twin, the year 2002 and the name
Michael Grieves are the ones which are quite talked about. Back then in
2002, Michael Grieves during Society of Manufacturing Engineers con-
ference in Michigan University, introduced the digital twin model. This
explains why the year 2002 and the name Michael Grieves are most talked
about when it comes to the history of digital twin.
So in the year 2002, when the digital twin model got introduced by
Dr. Michael Grieves, it got introduced as a concept for Product Lifecycle
Management (PLM). A name was given to the model but later on, the name
was changed. It was actually originally named the Mirrored Spaces Model
(MSM) but later changed to the Information Mirroring Model. Then finally
it was referred to as the Digital Twin, a name that John Vickers of National
Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) had coined [3].
Prior to this, the concept of digital twins had been put forward by David
Gelernter. This was also an important aspect in the journey of digital twin.
David Gelernter had introduced the concept of digital twin through his book
titled “Mirror Worlds” which was published in the year 1991. However, in
actuality, NASA was the one who initially brought this concept in 1960’s
and put it to application during their Apollo 13 mission in 1970.
They had themselves physically developed a twin system of their space-
craft. Through the spacecraft which was replicated at the ground level by
NASA, they could work and try different approaches for the spacecraft
which sent for a mission.
It indeed proved to be very helpful for NASA. In the year 2010, John Vickers
from NASA in roadmap report coined the term Digital Twin and this is how
this technology got its name. If one sees the journey of digital twin after getting
its name, till the present time then it can be noted that during this period digi-
tal twin has evolved quickly and in fact is continuing to evolve.



--- Página 28 ---

8 Digital Twin Technology
It looks all set to rise further and looking at the way it is making its mark
currently and going by its progress, it seems that in the same way it will
continue making its mark in the future as well. The digital twin technology
journey has been progressive. Its history has witnessed some key contribu-
tions and instances which led to its progress.
NASA has played a huge role in the journey of digital twin technology
as they were the ones who had for the first time worked on it. So they
contributed majorly towards this technology. Without their contribution
towards this technology, its journey would have not reached till where it
has reached in the present.
Digital twin technology’s name was also coined by a person from NASA
who is John Vickers. So, altogether, NASA has been a huge contributor
towards this technology and John Vickers contribution towards this tech-
nology’s journey has also been great and quite important.
David Gelernter’s contribution towards the journey of digital twin has
also been very important as he had introduced this technology’s concept
through his book “Mirror Worlds” which was published in the year 1991.
Introducing this technology and talking about it publicly for the first
time was done by Dr. Michael Grieves which also contributed quite a lot
towards the journey of digital twin. So the history of digital twin technol-
ogy has rightly witnessed different key contributions and instances which
led to its progress. Figure 1.1 below represents the journey of digital twin.
• Concept of digital twin was developed and put to
1960's application by NASA
• David Gelernter introduced concept of digital twin through his
1991 published book "Mirror Worlds"
• Micheal Grieves put forward the digital twin model in relation
2002 with product lifecycle management
• NASA's John Vickers in roadmap report termed Digital Twin
2010
2010 • Digital twin has evolved and is still continuing to evolve
onwards
till today
Figure 1.1 Journey of digital twin technology.



--- Página 29 ---

Overview of Digital Twin 9
1.4 Working
The working of digital twin is systematic. It is very easy to understand its
basic working process which is explained as follows.
Whenever a digital twin of an existing product is created, it works and
changes as per the input it receives from the real product. When there is
change in the real product, it will be immediately and automatically con-
veyed to the digital twin which will change accordingly because the real
product will be connected or linked with digital twin which ensures that
there can be real-time data transmission.
Sensors are deployed on the real product to get real-time data. A repli-
cate of the original product in virtual form is created i.e. a digital copy of
the original product will be created.
The digital copy is linked with real product to enable real-time
data transmission from real product to the digital copy. Linking them
together is important. Data transmission in real-time will allow digital
twin to update and change in accordance with the changes occurring
in the real product. So whatever changes are occurring in the real prod-
uct, those same changes will occur in the digital twin model also. Digital
twin can be utilized to run different simulations. It can give information
and important insights about the product. Digital twin has the ability to
estimate or predict regarding the possible problems or issues that can
be encountered in the real product which will help in preventing them.
Certain fix can be found for the predicted problems or issues to help pre-
vent them before they come in reality. This is the overall basic working
of digital twin.
Thus using digital twin the possible problems or issues can be prevented
or stopped before they come in reality in the real product which saves a lot
of trouble.
If the above explained basic working of digital twin is observed then
it can be noted that how systematically digital twin works. It is not at
all complex and very easy to understand. Digital twin has its own share
of advantages which it can offer its users and serve them better. It also
enables them to gain benefits from this technology and make the most of
this technology.
Based on the application purpose and the requirement, digital twin of
parts, product, system and process can be made known as parts or com-
ponent twins, product twins, system twins and process twins respectively.
Let’s understand them all one by one as follows:



--- Página 30 ---

10 Digital Twin Technology
• Parts twins
Engineers can easily understand the mechanical, electrical
and physical characteristics of a part using virtual represen-
tations of the individual components.
• Product twins
Product twins are nothing but digital models of different
components that ultimately forms a product being brought
together at one place. The reason different components are
brought together is to see how they are working with each
other.
Also, how environment can affect the components that
when brought together ultimately forms a product, can be
known using product twins. Product twins lets one know
how these components will interact, thereby generating the
performance data which one can analyze and utilize it for
their future course of work.
• System twins
A system comprises of various products. For making a sys-
tem, wide range of products are required. System Twins
are the ones which gives insight on how different products
which come together to form a system work.
On the basis of what system twins data suggests, if need
be for improvement, then different solutions can be sought
which can result in betterment of the system functionality
and its efficiency overall.
• Process twins
Process twins are the ones which can let you know and
understand the process of manufacturing. At each juncture
in which manner each and every particular system involved
in the process of manufacturing, functions in presence of all
other systems brought together can be known through pro-
cess twins.
So basically, in other words, all the systems involved in the process of
manufacturing are brought together and then process twins can tell how
they all function at each juncture in the presence of all other systems.
Through data obtained and analyzed from process twins, any alterations
required for smooth manufacturing can be done, thus allowing to prevent
errors in future and thus increasing the efficiency.



--- Página 31 ---

Overview of Digital Twin 11
1.5 Features
Digital twin is a technology which is opening doors to various possibilities
in different sectors which will shall prove to be very fruitful. Below are
some of the features of digital twin. Digital twin basically means a replicate
digital model of any device or product.
1.5.1 Replication of Each and Every Aspect of the Original
Device or Product
Digital twin actually replicates not just the looks but also each and every
aspect of any device or product.
1.5.2 Helps in Product Lifecycle Management
Digital twin can be used throughout product lifecycle to provide entire
information about it which makes product lifecycle management easier.
Any issues in a product that could be encountered in any stage of the
product lifecycle which will affect the product could be known prior to
their occurrence which will help in taking necessary measures to avoid
the errors and prevent major losses. With digital twin, the product can be
then managed efficiently throughout its lifecycle. Thus it helps in product
lifecycle management.
1.5.3 Digital Twin can Prevent Downtime
Digital twin can inform about issues prior to their arrival in real product
and can thus prevent downtime.
1.6 Advantages of Digital Twin
Written and explained below are some advantages of digital twin.
1.6.1 Digital Twin is Helpful in Preventing Issues or Errors
in the Actual Object, Product or Process
Digital twin has the ability to estimate or predict errors or issues that could
be encountered in the actual object, product or process.



--- Página 32 ---

12 Digital Twin Technology
If any error or issue that could be encountered is known prior than it has
happened or occurred in reality then it can be prevented. This is why and
this is how digital twin is helpful in prevention of issues or errors.
1.6.2 Helps in Well Utilization of Resources
When a product’s digital twin is created, it can predict any kind of com-
plication, issue or error that could be encountered in the product which
helps in avoiding it and allows for its better lifecycle management and thus
ultimately resulting in well utilization of all resources involved in product
development. When any kind of complication, issue or error is encoun-
tered in a product, object, etc. then it could even result in leaving the prod-
uct unusable. The product and all resources involved in the development
of it would be wasted in such a situation. However, digital twin can help in
avoiding such a situation.
With digital twins ability to predict errors or issues which can be
encountered in a product, object, etc. will help in avoiding them and
will promote better lifecycle management of it and automatically avoid
wastage of resources, thus encouraging proper and well utilization of
resources.
1.6.3 Keeping Vigilance of the Actual Object, Product
or Process Through Digital Twin is Possible
Through digital twin technology, keeping vigilance of the actual object,
product or process being replicated is not only just possible but also quite
easy as its vigilance can be kept from any location. Irrespective of the loca-
tion, its vigilance can be done remotely through digital twin.
1.6.4 Helps in Efficient Handling and Managing of Objects,
Device, Equipment, etc.
The digital twin technology will predict and inform any issues or hurdles in
any object, device, equipment, etc. in advance that allows for carrying out
predictive maintenance of it and also prevents any downtime. This leads
to efficient handling and managing of object, device, equipment, etc. So,
digital twin actually helps in efficient handling and managing of device,
equipment, etc.



--- Página 33 ---

Overview of Digital Twin 13
1.6.5 Reduction in Overall Cost of Manufacturing of Objects,
Products, etc.
The cost involved in manufacturing of objects, products, etc. when due
to any complication or issues they have to be remanufactured leads to
increase in overall cost of manufacturing. However this increase in overall
manufacturing cost can be reduced using digital twin technology.
Digital twin can estimate about the complication or issues which could
be faced in manufacturing of objects, products, etc., thus helping in pre-
venting it which means the requirement of remanufacturing might be
completely erased. This will on its own result in reduction of overall cost of
manufacturing of objects, products, etc.
1.7 Applications
Digital twin owing to its functioning, its capabilities and advantages, can
be used in various different sectors. Some of them are as follows:
• Construction sector
• Automotive sector
• Oil and gas sector
• Healthcare sector
• Pharmaceutical sector, etc.
1.8 A Simple Example of Digital Twin Application
Consider the following example stating and discussing application of digi-
tal twin and what benefits it can provide.
If supposing for a product or object, digital twin technology is used then
it can be useful in product lifecycle management and can be useful in other
ways as well. For example, consider that for a product manufactured, there
is a digital twin of it, then it can predict its performance and possible future
errors which will allow for preventive measures to be undertaken in time
to prevent those errors. It will enable the improvement of the product and
help in development of it. Tesla, Inc. also uses digital twin. Every car it sells
out, has its digital twin. So all data from sensors on the car is taken each day
and analyzed. Useful insights are gained and accordingly to avoid errors
and to improve performance, these insights are used to prepare software



--- Página 34 ---

14 Digital Twin Technology
updates for their cars which are sent to their users. All the insights can
be used for preparing the similar future products as well. Digital twin can
thus proficiently help and provide different benefits as understood from
the example.
1.9 Digital Twin Technology and the Metaverse
The term metaverse is gaining wide popularity lately. This comes nat-
urally as Facebook is now officially renamed to Meta and its founder
Mark Zuckerberg has announced that the company will be focusing on
metaverse. Likewise, other large companies like Microsoft are also working
on metaverse. Digital twin technology in context of the metaverse is also
being talked about widely. Metaverse is a term coined by Neal Stephenson
in his science-fiction novel entitled “Snow Crash”. Metaverse means a vir-
tual world or an online world. In other words, it can be even called as a sim-
ulated virtual environment. Here, users will have their own digital avatars
through which they can have interaction with others, visit shopping mall,
attend an office meeting, meet friends, etc. If the word metaverse is bro-
ken down then we get two different words that are meta and verse. “Meta”
means beyond whereas “verse” is referring to the universe. Metaverse is
also considered as the future of the Internet.
Digital twin is an essential block or element of the metaverse. Digital
twin digitally represents the physical world. Digital twin is connected to
the real-world object and receives real-time data. Digital twin can run sim-
ulations. It can predict possible problems that could occur in an object
and can provide insight and information regarding the object. Likewise, as
discussed in the chapter, there are various capabilities of digital twin, and
due to its capabilities, it is an essential block or element of the metaverse.
Digital twin can be used in different sectors. There might be various ben-
efits digital twin could provide in metaverse which might be known better
when it is more developed.
Metaverse could also bring various opportunities for different sectors
but there are some concerns and challenges as well. For example, ensuring
the privacy and security of data, the risk of people spending more time in
virtual world leading to decrease in their real-world interaction with oth-
ers, etc. However, as the metaverse is in its nascent stage, it is yet to be seen
what will be the future of metaverse and how different companies will put
it to utilization. Whatever the future is, digital twin will continue to remain
an essential block or element of metaverse.



--- Página 35 ---

Overview of Digital Twin 15
Digital twin technology currently faces certain challenges and some of
them are discussed and explained below.
1.10 Challenges
There are different challenges for the digital twin technology. Some of them
are as follows.
1.10.1 Careful Handling of Different Factors Involved
in Digital Twin
The handling of different factors involved in digital twin can be challeng-
ing. First and foremost one of the most essential things for digital twin is
data. The entire setup of sensors, the link for connecting the real space with
virtual space and for the link for flow of information from virtual space to
real space and virtual sub-spaces, are all very sensitive things to handle and
take care of. Faulty sensor or breaking of the link with digital twin can be a
serious hamper in the working of the digital twin.
Right from the start till the end everything has to be as per the require-
ment, then only the digital twin can be created and can work successfully.
Thus handling everything efficiently is a challenge.
1.10.2 Expertise Required
Expertise will be required for working on creation of digital twin to taking
care of whole functioning and managing everything related to it. Anyone
who is not having the required expertise for working and looking after all
the things related to digital twin if works on it then there are chances of
things going wrong or not as per expectation due to any mistake in work
caused by lack of expertise and knowledge. Hence when working on digital
twin, anyone who has complete digital twin expertise and knowledge is
required.
1.10.3 Data Security and Privacy
When a digital twin is created and used for any object, product or pro-
cess, a lot is dependent on the digital twin. It is trusted and all the import-
ant decisions for the real object, product or process is based on the digital
twin. In such a scenario, all the data security and data privacy concerns



--- Página 36 ---

16 Digital Twin Technology
related to digital twin should be of the utmost priority and should be taken
care of and looked after very well. Any particular technology, be it digital
twin or any other technology, even though it might be considered to be
completely secure when it comes to data security and privacy, no single
loophole should exist that could risk the security and privacy of data. This
needs to be underscored.
1.11 Conclusion
Viewing digital twin from the point of view of its capabilities, advantages
and functioning, it can be said that digital twin is all set to rise further. In
future with its evolvement, it could have a lot many applications and could
be utilized in various new more sectors other than the ones mentioned in
the book chapter. There can be numerous possibilities with digital twin and
currently it is difficult to state them all as digital twin is still evolving but it
will provide various benefits wherever it will be applied for usage.
Digital twin is a technology which is opening doors to various possibil-
ities in different sectors which will shall prove to be very fruitful. Digital
twin basically means a replicated digital model of any device or product. It
has great abilities which can benefit various sectors when applied in those
sectors.
This technology is growing with great pace. It has some really amazing
and useful advantages. In this chapter all the basics of digital twin which
includes understanding what it is, discussion regarding the beginning of
this technology, its working, features, etc. were discussed. An entire over-
view of digital twin is presented in this book chapter.
References
1. Fuller, A., Fan, Z., Day, C., Barlow, C., Digital twin: Enabling technologies,
challenges and open research. IEEE Access, 8, 108952–108971, 2020.
2. Barricelli, B.R., Casiraghi, E., Fogli, D., A survey on digital twin: Definitions,
characteristics, applications, and design implications. IEEE Access, 7,
167653–167671, 2019.
3. Grieves, M.W., Virtually intelligent product systems: Digital and physical
twins, in: Complex systems engineering: Theory and practice, S. Flumerfelt
(Eds.), pp. 175–200, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics,
2019.



--- Página 37 ---

Overview of Digital Twin 17
4. Terkaj, W. and Urgo, M., A virtual factory data model as a support tool for
the simulation of manufacturing systems. Procedia CIRP, 28, 137–142, 2015.
5. Mateev, M., Industry 4.0 and the digital twin for building industry. Int. Sci. J.
Ind. 4.0, 5, 1, 29–32, 2020.
6. Cimino, C., Negri, E., Fumagalli, L., Review of digital twin applications in
manufacturing. Comput. Ind., 113, 103130, 2019.
7. Singh, M., Fuenmayor, E., Hinchy, E.P., Qiao, Y., Murray, N., Devine, D.,
Digital twin: Origin to future. Appl. Syst. Innov., 4, 2, 36, 2021, https://doi.
org/10.3390/asi4020036.
8. Kritzinger, W., Karner, M., Traar, G., Henjes, J., Sihn, W., Digital twin in
manufacturing: A categorical literature review and classification. IFAC-
PapersOnLine, 51, 11, 1016–1022, 2018.
9. Khan, S., Farnsworth, M., McWilliam, R., Erkoyuncu, J., On the require-
ments of digital twin-driven autonomous maintenance. Annu. Rev. Control.,
50, 13–28, 2020.
10. Lee, D., Lee, S.H., Masoud, N., Krishnan, M.S., Li, V.C., Integrated digital
twin and blockchain framework to support accountable information sharing
in construction projects. Autom. Constr., 127, 103688, 2021.
11. Lee, J., Azamfar, M., Singh, J., Siahpour, S., Integration of digital twin and
deep learning in cyber-physical systems: Towards smart manufacturing. IET
Collab. Intell. Manuf., 2, 1, 34–36, 2020.
12. Lee, A., Kim, J., Jang, I., Movable dynamic data detection and visualiza-
tion for digital twin city. 2020 IEEE International Conference on Consumer
Electronics—Asia (ICCE-Asia), IEEE Xplore, pp. 1–2, 2020.
13. Brettel, M., Friederichsen, N., Keller, M., Rosenberg, M., How virtualization,
decentralization and network building change the manufacturing landscape:
An Industry 4.0 perspective. Int. J. Mech. Aerospace Ind. Mechatron. Eng., 8,
37–44, 2014.
14. Ruohomaki, T., Airaksinen, E., Huuska, P., Kesaniemi, O., Martikka, M.,
Suomisto, J., Smart city platform enabling digital twin. 2018 International
Conference on Intelligent Systems (IS), IEEE Xplore 2019, pp. 155–161, 2018.
15. West, S., Gaiardelli, P., Rapaccini, M., Exploring technology-driven service
innovation in manufacturing firms through the lens of service dominant
logic, in: IFAC-Papers online, vol. 51, pp. 1317–1322, 2018.
16. Lohtander, M., Ahonen, N., Lanz, M., Ratava, J., Kaakkunen, J., Micro manu-
facturing unit and the corresponding 3d-model for the digital twin. Procedia
Manuf., 25, 55–61, 2018.
17. Uhlemann, T.H.-J., Lehmann, C., Steinhilper, R., The digital twin: Realizing
the cyber-physical production system for industry 4.0. Proc. CIRP, 61, 335–
340, 2017.
18. Rasheed, A., San, O., Kvamsdal, T., Digital twin: Values, challenges and
enablers. IEEE Access, 8, 21980–22012, 2020.



--- Página 38 ---

18 Digital Twin Technology
19. Rosen, R., Wichert, G.V., Lo, G., Bettenhausen, K., About the importance of
autonomy and digital twins for the future of manufacturing, in: IFAC-Papers
online, vol. 48, pp. 567–572, 2015.
20. Macchi, M., Roda, I., Negri, E., Fumagalli, L., Exploring the role of digital
twin for asset lifecycle management, in: IFAC-Papers online, vol. 51, pp. 790–
795, 2018.
21. Jones, D., Snider, C., Nassehi, A., Yon, J., Hicks, B., Characterising the digital
twin: A systematic literature review. CIRP J. Manuf. Sci. Technol., 29, 36–52,
2020, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cirpj.2020.02.002.
22. Longo, F., Nicoletti, L., Padovano, A., Ubiquitous knowledge empowers the
smart factory: The impacts of a service-oriented digital twin on enterprises’
performance. Annu. Rev. Control, 47, 221–236, 2019.
23. Grieves, M. and Vickers, J., Digital twin: Mitigating unpredictable, undesir-
able emergent behavior in complex systems, in: Transdisciplinary Perspectives
on Complex Systems, F.J. Kahlen, S. Flumerfelt, A. Alves (Eds.), pp. 85–113,
Springer, Cham, 2017, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-38756-7_4.


